# Session Source Bundle
Source directory: /home/robot/gitrepos/2026_RH_SUMMIT/otter_summaries/2026_12/RH_SUMMIT_DAY2_KEYNOTE_1

## Session Datetime
This talk took place on 2026_05_12 from 8:30am to 10:00am

## Transcript: transcript_of_next_platform_is_choice_1.txt
♪ Oh yeah. Come on! Come on. Everybody clap your hands. Let's go! Come on, Johnny! Break it down for us. Break it down. Hey, let's go! ♪ Come on. Come on, let's go. Hey! Let's go, Johnn JohnnyJohnny Johnny. Hey. Keep it going! G! Go go go go! Red Hat Summit, 2026. Come on! Party people make some noise. That's not easy. That's not easy! Whoo! Come on. ♪ Let's go. What do we tell them. Go! Oh yeah. What you got, home girl? How you feeling? >> I'm feeling good. How you feeling? >> I'm feeling fantastic. Let's keep it going. All right, y'all, let's go, let's go! >> Let's go! ♪ Oh! Red Hat Summit. Red Hat Summit! ♪ ♪ to be distributed or used in any way that may violate copyright law. >> We are standing on the shoulders of visionaries. >> It's not just about dreaming of a better world, but recognizing where global technology impacts human challenges. >> I would not be here without Linux and open source software. We've changed the world. >> We are watching the impact and potential of open source that played out all those years ago. Now playing out with AI. >> Welcome to Red Hat Summit. Please welcome Red Hat president and CEO, Matt Hicks. HOIP good morning. Look at this crowd. Every one of you is responsible for something that cannot break. Cannot go down. Cannot be wrong. Whether it's financial transactions or health care networks that physicians depend on for life-aFENTHing decisions. Or the millions of consumers served by telecommunications networks. MATT HICKS: Look at this That's just a normal week for the people in this room. Here's what I think of a lot. The outcomes give all of the attention, the deployment measures, the SLAs, the uptime measurements. What doesn't get seen is the craft behind them that makes it possible. The person who designed that architecture from scratch. The person that migrated hundreds of virtual MSHs. The person that at 2:00 a.m. in the morning figuresVirtual Machines. The person that at 2:00 a.m. in the morning figures out the cause of the outage that wasn't in the run book. That takes real expertise and real creativity. And yet most of the world never sees it. I see it, and I think it's important to address that before we talk about anything else today. Now, the question for you, hands up, and be honest with me on this one. How many of you are managing an environment today that is more complex than what you were managing two years ago? Put your hands up. Now keep your hands up if your budget has grown at the same rate as that complexity? Yeah, there aren't a lot of hands left. Think about that, in addition to this, how many of you are being asked to run an AI initiative while also managing a legacy system that is absolutely critical to your business? So these constraints, these pressures, the new initiative pressure, the organizational friction, the legacy constraints all happening at once? That is the daily reality for the people in this room. That's the -- that combination is the villain in the room. Think about your reality. Your virtualization costs are up significantly. Your regulatory environment is expanding faster than your compliance teams can track. Your board wants ROI on AI projects with a timeline that doesn't always match enterprise reality. And yet your people, your talented, hard-working people are being asked to modernize and secure and operate and innovate. On these same time lines with the same budget. That gap, that chasm between the complexity of your environment and the resources you have to work with it, and the speed at which your business needs to compete? That is the real story of Enterprise IT right now. Not just AI. And if we're not talking about that chasm then we're not talking about your reality. I have actually seen these pressures before that lead to a question with practically every customer that I talk to. What do I build on? Not what vendor? Not what cloud, not what model. What is the foundation that lets me compete at the speed my business needs while not breaking what absolutely cannot be broken in my business? I have seen this before, twice actually. Both times in ways that fundamentally reshaped the industry. 6 The first time was in the shift from are pro -- proprietary hardware and software to open ended infrastructure. The question to that question ended up being Linux. Red Hat brought Linux to Enterprise and became a standard in practically every industry. Everything that followed was built on Linux. Cloud, IoT, mobile. Every AI model and agent runs on Linux: That foundation that we built together is now the reality of what everything we depend on today is running on. Now the second time this came up was in the shift to cloud-native. So containers, Kuberneteses, microservices. At Red Hat, we didn't invent Docker or Kubernetes. We brought Kubernetes to the Enterprise through Open Shift, and now that is a standard that thousands of customers depend on for their hybrid cloud. We are at the third inflection point with AI, and Red Hat will bring AI to the Enterprise to make that an open standard. And I think the pattern holds from the last two. The organizations that will have the most success in this environment? They are not necessarily going to be the ones that spend the most or the ones that move the fastest. That will be the ones that build on the right foundation. Virtual Machines, containers, AI agents, they are not competing with each other. They are convergent. And the answer to this is not going to be one cloud or one vendor or one model. It will be the right platform with a broad eco-system that supports it. And I'm biased, but I think the organizations that will have the most success will pick a platform with an open foundation. Speaking of AI, let's take a minute and talk about our AI journey at Red Hat, because we're going through the same inflection point at the same time as all of you. As you know, Red Hat is an open-source company, so what we build, we share. That is how open source works. And at this point, we have deployed generative AI to every organization in the company. Each organization is looking for ways to either drive more efficiency for them or create more value for you, the customers. For example, you might have heard about or used ask Red Hat. It is our interactive chatBOT that runs on our customer support portal. This chat BOT has been trained on over two decades of support information, knowledge base, support capabilities within Red Hat. This is a case where hopefully this is more value for you when you're operating in the known of support, but it is also more efficient for us and saves us millions of dollars a year. Now in this journey, we've had plenty of successes. We have also had plenty of failures. And that's easy to do when the technology is changing practically weekly now. But those learnings are going actively back into the platforms that we provide you. Every you're going to hear about at Summit that our confidence, our belief that we can be the right foundation for your journey is not just a market position. It's what we are actually doing in Red Hat. Now about a year ago, we moved from the world of chat BOTs to building AI agents. Specifically, we wanted to build an agentic system that could build a massive body of eternal knowledge and return something genuinely useful. Not a summary, but an actual answer. And we started where many of you probably start -- with PROfront models, the best, most capable models that we could work with. We wanted to understand what was possible before we decided how to build this right. And it worked. After we had about ten agents working together, it was clear that this system worked and would continue to work, so we did what was very natural to Red Hat. We started to optimize. We went through layer by layer figuring out which of these models could be replaced by open-weight models running on vLLM, an infrastructure we controlled. First we rebuilt the document search capabilities. We found out that small models excel in the correctly formatted documents at finding the right answers. So we moved documented search. Next came hallucination detection. You will deal with hallucinations. Small models were an excellent way to do that double checking. We moved from hallucinations to safety management to controlling what we would answer and recommend. Lastly we moved to planning, the most complicated step where an agent has to look at all of the other agents it could talk to and figure out what questions to ask to get that genuinely useful answer. Layer by layer, we went through the entire application to figure out what we could switch in the frontier models to open-source models running on our infrastructure and technology. Today, 85% of the calls running on our deep research agent system call open source, open weight models running on Red Hat infrastructure. And here's what surprised us. Of course this was more efficient, but our results actually got better. And it wasn't because frontier models weren't the right place to start, but when you own the model and you own the infrastructure, you can optimize in a way that a frontier model that is general purpose could never anticipate. The heart of our system today is running on Nemotron Super, Nano, and IBM granite. Now we are at an efficiency point, a unit cost perspective that we are able to start rolling this out to the entire company. What we built is not a demo. This wasn't a pilot. This is fundamentally changing how we operate at Red Hat. And our learnings go directly back into the platforms that we provide for you all. That is how open source works. But beyond the technical proof, beyond having a system that works, the power of hybrid AI, seeing what smaller open weight models can do, here is what we learned about the process, the actual work. And I want to be direct on this: To the software developers in the room, you are not getting replaced by AI. But where you spend your time and energy will drastically change. Figuring out how to build and shape evaluations for the AI creative systems, figuring out how to build the next generation of continuous integration systems in a world where anyone can contribute. Figuring out how to create the next generation testing frameworks that maintain some stability. The humans that build the rails that AI runs on? That is where your craft is going. To the managers in the room: You are about to be tested on your ability to delegate. AI agents, they are going to expand the capabilities and capacity of your team. In some cases, drastically. They are also going to pressure test every process that you have. And in your case as a manager, they will pressure test your ability to understand the technology, truly understand your processes, and be able to decompose complicated work, to be able to delegate to both humans and agents. Your ability to do this will largely define how well you can lead in this environment. And to every other person in every role in the company, you now have no barriers to contribute your knowledge into a system like this. At this point, we have had content, knowledge contributed into our deep research agent from every organization in the company. But beyond knowledge, beyond content, we have had code contributed from every organization in the company. From legal, from inside sales, from operations, from teams that have never written a line of production code in their careers have been able to positively impact our agentic system. When you couple AI and its ability to amplify what we can do with a well engineered system, I promise you, it will change what you can build as a company. AI isn't optional at this point, whether it brings you energy or whether it creates real uncertainty. And I think for many of us, it is a combination, a mixture of both. It can't be ignored. But there also isn't a single path. Some of you MIEKT be ready to run AImight be ready to run AI or are in production. Some of you might be just trying to figure out what is hype and what is reality at this opponent. And some of you might be just trying to get your infrastructure in order to even make this a reality. All of that is legitimate. What I would caution against are the extremes. Either moving so slow that when you start, you can never catch up or moving so fast that you build on a foundation that you cannot address what comes next. Because I promise you, something will come next in this environment. So here is what I can promise you. Everything you're going to hear about at Summit is what Red Hat is actually doing. It will not be theory. Won't be road map slides. This will be production experience. I've genuinely never been more excited about the potential of the application of this technology, and also that the timing is perfect for us to figure out this journey together. Let's get to. Welcome to Red Hat Summit 2026. >> Please welcome Red Hat senior Vice President and chief product officer, Ashesh Badani. >> ASHESH BADANI: Thank you, Matt. Let me start with something we've heard from hundredsover customers for the last 18 months, and that is a virtualization cost crisis. The deeper problem is this, your infrastructure layer needs to increasingly do more than you planned for. You should support VMs, needs to support containers, cloud-native applications for the workloads that your developers are building for today and for tomorrow, and for AI as you heard from Matt, you should support a future workload capacity. Three fundamentally different workload types. Most platforms will ask you three different ways, with three different operation models and three different cost structures. We feel that's an unsustainable ask for any team. What if there was one platform with one operation model and one security shift. That is exactly what OpenShift delivers and different than any other platform on the market today. All running side by side, managed the same way, operated the same way, secured the same way. Providing that platform, though, is just one part of the answer. As you all well know, migrating that virtualization environment is not a weekend project. It's complex. It touches hundreds of applications, carries real business risk. We know this because we have done this with some of our largest customers at scale. And so have our partners. We know something else, too. The hardest part of that work is not the technology. It's not the technology. It's the people, the engineers who have to keep the old environment running at full availability while simultaneously building the new one. All the additional head count and without missing a single SLA in the process. Now that is a big ask and it's exactly the kind of ask that gets made without anyone in finance fully understanding what it requires. So we built migration assessment tooling that gives you complete visibility into your application state before you move even a single workload. In the last year, we assessed over 1.1 million Virtual Machines. We established a phased migration approach that lets you move at your own pace with full fall back options at every stage. And we migrated nearly 400,000 Virtual Machines. The number of VMs grew by over 417% in just the last year. Clusters running VMs on Openshift, way up. Customers run VMs on OpenShift, way up. Now to achieve the scale that you need, we invested deeply in the systems integrated eco-system by being in the room when this work happens. When you think about this, this isn't a migration from one VM platform to another. It's a migration, really, from a virtualization strategy to a modernization strategy. Now we know what some of you are thinking right no. Why not just go all in with hyperscalar and move it all to the cloud? Fair question, here are three things that hyperscalar native services fundamentally cannot give you. First, con -- consistency. You will get different tooling, OpenShift gives you one model that works the same way everywhere. On AWS, on Azure, on Edge, and even in disconnected and regulated environments. Second, independence. When you standardize deeply, you trade negotiating leverage for convenience. That's anthetical. Third, regulator reality. For many organizations in this room, financial services, health care, government, telecommunications, 100% public cloud is impossible due to legal cons constraints. Hybrid? There is not really a compromise for the industries. It is the only viable strategy. And Red Hat is the only platform that makes hybrid a genuine first-class archi architecture, not an afterthought. We don't ask you to take our word for any of this. You can see what industry analysts are saying. But nothing I can say, an analyst can say, is more credible than hearing it directly from the people who have actually done this work. Motorol is the perfect example that solved the burden of cost. They saw that villain early and chose a path that prioritizes both resiliency and speed. So now let's hear about Motorola's journey directly from the senior director of core platforms and services. Welcome to Red Hat. Thanks for joining us. Your team supports infrastructure for first responders where every second counts. Describe the infrastructure and environment that you work?? >> Thanks. We built tech that is the backbone for first responders. We are talking about dispatchers, police officers, firefighters, and EMTs. We support them for the full incident life cycle, all the way from when the 911 call lands to dispatching help, to responding to help, managing cases, and communication throughout the life cycle. Every second saved is a second used to save a life. And we use hybrid infrastructure to deploy these applications. Core work flows like call handling, dispatch, they stay on-prem. We need near zero latency. We use cloud as a vital redundancy solution. And also as a platform for advanced innovation. We deploy transcription, translation, summarization and more in the cloud. The key caveat of all of this is the system must be up. It must be resilient under extreme pressure. We don't just manage service and code. We provide the certainty that is system works when the system calls for help. >> ASHESH BADANI: So your team are delivering in mission critical environments and platforms. Last year many leaders maybe in the room were hit with the virtualization cost crisis, potential 3X to 5X increase in cost for your legacy footprint. Why did you decide that Red Hat was a good fit for you? >> Many of you were looking at the crisis and we looked at various options. We saw where we could use the hyperscalar and limit it. But we turned the crisis into an opportunity to modernize our environ infrastructure. And this allowed us to treat this transition as a natural evolution of our application stack. So just to give you some context, we managed to separate worlds. We had the legacy world of Virtual Machines and containers running in cloud. As you can imagine, there's a lot of silos and different toolings and processes and operations that were very inefficient. But with this, we moved to one Kubernetes-based foundation that can scale across all of cloud. And essentially unify our operations with one hybrid deployment fabric. And the transition was also seamless. We were able to run Virtual Machines and containers at the same time on-prem, and allow the teams to move workloads over a period of time without having to be like a big migration project that will never end. So whether it's the cloud, the data center, the edge, we manage everything using one singular lens with the same security tooling, same observe ability tooling and pipelines. >> So this is a perfect use case for deploying OpenShift. >> So we workday in and day out with public safety customers and they are risk averse for good reason. They need on-prem for response, but they need cloud agility so they can use the latest technology advancements to respond better. And the hybrid model has helped us solve that purpose. Today we provide two unique value propositions to our customers. One, we are able to provide cloud redundancy operation. If one goes down, they are able to go to the cloud. Or they could choose cloud as primary and fall back to on-prem. That is really helping. And around AI, we are able to run on AI workflows in cloud but seamlessly integrate them to the work flows on-prem. Think about a 911 call, they are able to view live transcripts. And they are able to use translation on the radios and talk to someone in a different language. You are providing summarizization across cases management and other things. So this hybrid infrastructure helped us integrate cloud and on-prem in a seamless manner so that the end user doesn't really have to worry about where the workloads are running. >> ASHESH BADANI: That makes a lot of sense. In the end, this journey was about more than a technology swap. So let's look ahead at the next several years. What are the primary lessons that you are taking away from this modernization? And what about your vision for the future model? >> So I think the first step of modernization over the virtualization layer has helped us create a strong foundation for our hybrid fabric between on-prem and cloud. We are able to solve everything from core public safety to advanced AI models. Our goal is to reduce the complexity so our talent who is building better use cases and enabling better response flows without having to worry about infrastructure silos. Hybrid is so important. We want to take advantage of cloud capabilities while maintaining absolute sovereignty of data. So success for us means infrastructure and technology becomes invisible. It should be like oxygen, and something that a police officer or firefighter ever has to think about. We are building a certainty that the tools will work when they are needed the most in moments that matter. >> ASHESH BADANI: So moments that matter indeed. Critical work that you and your team are doing. Your team is really proving that infrastructure modernization is the foundation for everything that will come next. So you did solve a cost process or waste a crisis. You built a platform for the next decade of public safety. Thank you for sharing with us what it looks like to face strategic risks and win. [ Applause ] Wow. What an amazing story. Absolutely life saving and mission critical work. It goes without saying that the world faces uncertainty right now. From geopolitics to AI to new regulations impacting digital sovereignty. This conversation used to happen in the legal department and now it's happening in your architecture review board. The requirements shape how your AI models can be trained. What positions are AI systems allowed to make autonomously? That regulatory landscape is expanding. I have talked to many of you about the EU AI act. Industry specific regulations, financial services, health care, government, all being rewritten to account for AI. For us, the answer is obvious. It always has been. Freedom and choice. Freedom and choice delivered by open source give you control and transparency. Which is ultimately what you need underpinning your architecture. This is the reason that the largest financial institutions in the world and government agencies and health care systems are choosing open source infrastructure. The digital sovereignty solution that we built is built upon decades of solutions. Any organization, whether that's Enterprise, cloud service provider, a teleco, increasingly use platforms to build sovereign or private AI clouds. Our solution spans our entire portfolio. Today, we announced a number of new capabilities to help our customers and partners meet increasingly strict requirements around data, technology, and operational sovereignty. First we have enhanced our complies framework to make it easier to prepare for NIS2, GDPR, and DORA. We offer a cross platform installer to build landing zones. We built a new service fulfillment API that enables users to quickly stand up provisions. You can start with Virtual Machines and clusters and add new AI services like GPU-models and inferencing as a service. We also plan to provide you safeguard your software supply chain and improve your operational resilience in Europe. You can now download HHEL from within the EU. We have had Red Hat confirmed stateside support in the U.S. for ten years. We launched confirmed sovereign support for the EU. And we will look to roll this out to other regions in the near future. And to help you get started as a migration for your Virtual Machines, we released a Red Hat Sovereignty readiness assessment that gives you a structured way to evaluate your current posture GENT criticaagainst critical so domains. And finally last week, IBM announced a new solution, IBM sovereign core designed to help organizations build and operate AI ready sovereign environments and verify their control, giving Enterprises and governments an end-to-end approach. Let's look at how Red Hat is already helping customers with their approach to digital sovereignty by talking about something we all do. Flying on a plane. Most of us did it this week, but we rarely think about the GPS behind it. If your flight crossed European air space, it's coordinated by euro control, the organization responsible for safely managing over 11 million flights. That's a big job with a lot of moving pieces -- literally. But here's the challenge. The core IT backbone is more than 30 years old. Good enough was no longer an option. While it was robust, their infrastructure was a walled garden that made it nearly impossible to scale to meet the demands of modern aviation or use modern machine learning or AI to improve. They set out to build a unified mission-critical platform. They needed digital sovereignty. As a public European organization they needed to be mindful of European policy. And this is where Red Hat comes in. What's really cool here is that they are refactoring 30 years of institutional knowledge into a modern API architecture. In the process, they are transforming the data analysis into a three day wait into a realtime tapability. Engineering are no longer spending days on maintenance. They focus on high value applications, but keep the skies safe for all of uus. Your euro control is a perfect example of taking a 30-year-old legacy and turning it into fast, flexible, and solving for the future. We are incredibly proud to be part of that journey. We have spoken about the increasing regulatory environment. These are all making the case for an architecture that accounts for sovereignty. We're going to look at how that vision becomes a reality. Please join me in welcomiing Raghu: >> RAGUH CHAKRAVARTHI: Hello. >> . >> ASHESH BADANI: Thank you for being here with us. You have been established sovereign cloud operator for over five years. This landscape has been shifting rapidly. What's the fundamental problem that you solve for organizations in the UAE? >> RAGUH CHAKRAVARTHI: First of all, thank you for having me, and thanks for being an incredible partner for us, strategic, in our journey towards sovereign AI. Regulated industries help defense, national security or financial services trace a binary choice right now. Public cloud convenience versus absolute control. Autonomy in technology is key to avoiding the kill switch problem. Good enough platforms compromise sovereignty and that results in shadow AI or data leakage risks that are operationally and legally unacceptable. >> ASHESH BADANI: That's certainly true about good enough not being necessary. We have got to go higher. >> RAGUH CHAKRAVARTHI: Exactly. We are trusted for the G42 intelligence grid and the national digital platforms across UAE. Our platform enables AI applications that citizens and Enterprises interact with daily to operate at scale with compliance and with the reliability that critical services require. We are designed for classified, top-secret workloads, extending our workload into the most sensitive areas of government and regulated industry. More than 70 companies have adopted the Core42 sovereign cloud as of now. >> ASHESH BADANI: It's clear that core 42 is making progress here. We often talk about partnerships. It's a deep engineering collaboration. We appreciate that. You were the first in the world to adopt open stack. Congratulations to you and the team for doing that. Can you tell us about the decision to build on this stack? And how our teams are working together to influence the future of sovereign features? >> RAGUH CHAKRAVARTHI: We needed a platform capable of anchoring our technology sovereignty with equal precision compared to the other requirements. Red Hat's open stack and open shift emerged as the premier solution for meeting this critical technology sovereignty requirement. By running OpenStack on OpenShift, we have unified operational models for VMs and contains. This is a co-build, it's all about collaboration. Our monthly cadence calls with Red Hat engineers allows us to provide direct feedback and especially on must-have solutions and we have solved about 50% of all enhancements that we have escalated so far. By utilizing all of these tools, we provide the freedom to build and scale on our own terms while avoiding the foreign control or the vendor lock-in that happens. This collaboration turned out platform into a robust, high redundancy architecture, ensuring we meet hundreds of specific security policies set by the UAE's national security counsel. >> ASHESH BADANI: That makes a lot of Esense. There is zero room for error in what you do. Why did you choose Red Hat? >> RAGUH CHAKRAVARTHI: Red Hat's work on OpenStack has turned it into a genuinely robust foundation. From fully air gapped solutions to restricted versus connected models that we serve. The breadth combined with the stability and the maturity of the Red Hat platform is why we see Red Hat as the premier partner for our sovereign infrastructure. This collaboration reflects how national scale AI must be built with sovereignty, resilience, and long-term engineer control into its foundation. Our customers such as large banks and government entities trust us because we can verify that the diagnostic data, the audit data stays in the region. And that support is delivered by vetted in-country personnel. This reduces the cost of complexity. We provision GPU resources for AI in minutes rather than weeks, and our national disaster recovery program for the government is already proving its ROI in terms of operational resilience. >> ASHESH BADANI: So great progress so far, unDoubtedly. Let's look ahead. You described the work in the UAE as a proof of concept for the rest of the world. So as you look to export this model to other countries, how do you see the Red Hat partnership evolving to help you scale out? >> RAGUH CHAKRAVARTHI: That's a critical point, Core42 is exporting the sovereign AI models, operational expertise and frameworks that other nations can build upon. Some examples of this are the AI factory that we own and operate right here in the U.S. across five data centers with over 100 megawatts of AI capacity to serve the largest AI labs. And the partnership that we announced to deploy the largest Europe's AI compute cluster in Italy. These reflect the expansion strategy that we have around the globe and Red Hat is our geoexpansion partner. We want to be the AWS of the sovereign cloud. Next decade of AI will separate the organizations that built resilient, durable foundations from those that scaled quickly on fragile ones. Whether it's connected, as I said, restricted, or fully air-gapped, we are building a standard global platform. Partnering with Red Hat gives us a common technology platform that lets us modernize digital infrastructure anywhere in the world. >> ASHESH BADANI: Thank you for sharing your vision with us. You're proving that at Core42, you don't have to trade choice or control. You can certainly have both. Thanks again for joining us. >> RAGUH CHAKRAVARTHI: Thank you. [ Applause ] >> ASHESH BADANI: What a great story. Love the ambition of that team. Data sovereignty is the foundation, but AI sovereignty is the next evolution of the same challenge. That is where the stakes are significantly higher. Let me define AI sovereignty precisely. It's a term that is getting used loosely. There are three things you must own to have genuine AI sovereignty in your organization. One, model sovereignty. The ability to choose which AI models run in your environment. The ability to change them as the market evolves -- and it will evolve. The ability to run them anywhere based on your business and data and regulators require. Two, data sovereignty. The peace of mind that the data you use to train, fine-tune, and run your AI models never leaves your control. It stays in the jurisdictions your regulators require. It's not used to train anyone else's models without your explicit consent. That you know precisely and verifiably where it lives and who has access to it as every moment. Three, outcome sovereignty. The ability to audit every significant AI-generated decision. To explain it. To trace it back to the data and the model that produced it, and if necessary, to override it. AI sovereignty is not a theoretical conversation. Customers are actively addressing this today. Telenor was founded in 1855 and began its journey as a state-operated telegraph service in Norway. For 170 years, Telenor has stayed at the forefront of every major communication shift. They are one of the most geographically diversified telecommunications groups in the world, serving millions. They are operating in highly regulated markets, and their challenge is the same villain that many of you face: Operationallizing AI at scale while navigating a landscape of regulatory and security constrictions. Customers are government agencies, health care providers, and providers that need AI that respect national borders. They need high performance infrastructure for model training and inference that remains secure and under their control. They need sovereign AI. The Telenor story bridges sovereignty and AI and is a great example of how closely these domains intersect for our customers globally. Telenor did not work for the market to define the future. They built it. The foundation of that is the Red Hat factory with NVIDIA. We are already hosting multi-tenant customers in Norway. They are accelerating automation and more. So having heard all of that, Telen is not just a teleco any more. They are a sovereign AI provider. So if an organization can modernize over 170 years of history, and if an organization can grow from managing telegraphs to being a sovereign AI power house, then every organization in this room and every one of you listening to us today has the potential to do the same. Let me bring on our CTO, Chris Wright, who will go deeper into AI for the rest of the keynote. Please welcome Chris Wright! >> CHRIS WRIGHT: Telegraph to AI? I love Telenor's modernization story. Sitting on the AI sidelines is a totally failed strategy. In my 20 years at Red Hat, I've just never seen any technology move at this pace. If you're overwhelmed by the number of new things happening in AI, I can say with confidence, you're not alone. It feels like there's hundreds of new announcements every month -- sometimes daily. But let me show you three examples of how I think about the speed of change happening across AI. Three and a half years ago, everybody had that do you remember where you were moment when generative AI and ChatGPT went from a research concept to something that millions of people were using immediately. Nobody was prepared for this level of change, the least of which was Enterprise IT organizations. Then eight months later, meta responded with an equivalent open weights model for mass adoption. That was Llama2. Two years ago came reasoning. Reasoning models like OpenAI o 1 could think longer about problems. Reasoning creates a massive explosion in toking usage and laid the ground work for future AI agents. Then DeepSeek R1 was released at a much lower cost to train. Now we've had cloud code since February last year. But with the introduction of Opus 4.5, towards the end of last year in November, we saw this emergence of an agentic coding tool. Everybody came back from the holidays with their minds blown about their agentic coding experience. So that combination, just two months later, OpenClaw became the fastest growing open source proJESHTH ever. Like open sourceject ever. Like open source agents for everyone. We had eight months, five months, two months. Every time open responds faster than the time before. Admittedly, three years ago, it wasn't totally clear about the role of open source with AI. While it's critical for deep dependencies and data science, but now with open source inference, with OpenWeights models and open source harnesses, these are undeniably ready to be the foundation of AI in the future. So I'd recommend, take away two things from these examples. The first is this speed and velocity is not going to slow down any time soon. So you have got to make sure you're building flexibility into your AI strategy. And the second, the right AI platform built on open source will enable you to manage the pace of choice and change that AI is driving today. Now before we dive into the platform, let's just reflect on the business reality that makes this platform so important. Right now most Enterprise AI runs like this: You call a frontier model API, you pay for the tokens, you send it, and the tokens that it generates for you, it's super easy to start. Powerful models, and for some workloads, genuinely just the right answer. But here is the dynamic that's worth watching closely. Per-token pricing is coming down 75 to 90% a year. That's the good news. Token consumption, however, is skyrocketing. Increasing over 500% a year in some cases. And so, with these new reasoning models that are generating even more token as they think, consuming 10 to 20 times more tokens than standard models. And with AI agents, you will have to expect another 5X multiple, because an AI agent reasons. It plans. You heard from Matt, it calls tools. It iterates, it loops. It's connected to other agents in a work flow. So to win token economics, you have to move from being just a token consumer to an actual token provider. And we're working with organizations around the enable just that. Organizations that own part of their own inference infrastructure that run self-hosted models optimized for their business and have real choice over which model to use for which job. Those are the organizations that will emerge as the winners. So let's dive into the platform. Now remember what Matt described earlier, that journey from frontier models to open source models hosted internally that ran on this platform: Red Hat AI Enterprise. It's the platform that really made it possible. We really call this metal to agents, a fully integrated stack that spans from the physical machines running AA accelerators all the way up to the agents delivering real business value. Every layer connected, secured, and open. At the foundation, Red Hat AI Enterprise runs on any accelerator and any cloud, giving our customers choice and control over where they deliver AI capabilities for their business. This includes accelerators from NVIDIA, AMD, Intel, AWS, Google Cloud, Azure, and whatever comes next across public, private, and edge environments. That's the foundation. Now let's go through the Red Hat Enterprise AI stack that makes the Metal to Agents possible. It begins at this AI infrastructure layer. Now this is where the IT operations, SRE, and platform engineering teams live. Today AI runs on Linux and is scaled with Kubernetes. RHEL provides this Linux foundation, the trusted and reP liable operating system that is built with the security needs of both current and future workloads in mind. So we protect the foundation of your AI system. Everything above this really depends on getting this layer right. Red Hat OpenShift is our unified Kubernetes platform. Network isolation can control what an agent can reach. And GPU sharing across workloads means your most expensive resources are not locked to a single team or sitting idle between inference calls. PR next arEr next are in services. This is your token economics layer lives. Performance, scalability, efficiency, and cost all come together. Inference is the layer that determines whether your AI strategy succeeds at scale. If you get inference wrong, your customers aren't happy, your agents are not happy, and your CFO is definitely not happy. So we deliver these through vLLM, and Red Hat is soup err proud to be the leading contributor to the Vllm project. This is complemented by llm-d, our open source distributed inference framework. AI workloads are not typical workloads. Enterprise workloads often don't fit on a single GPU. They are stateful and fundamental rely on KV cache and they VARry fromvary from re question. So we rout and schedule requests across your environment optimizing how models execute, how GPU resources are used and how Latency is managed. The performance is 3X more output and 10X faster to first token. There's a great paper published by Red Hat and Tesla that has all the details. Next up, we've got model services. This is where choice is critical. Given all the changes happening with frontier models, with open weight models, with domain specific models and small language models. Now the starting point for many is delivering models as a service to their internal application and data science teams. Red Hat AI Enterprise makes that easy. When your AI teams need to add or remove or swap a model, you do it in just one place. Your teams choose the models they want, token quotas, crescential access, request priorities and rate limiting are all delivered through our AI gateway. One control plane for every model interaction across your environment. The reality is that XAEPs will use many different models to deliver the AI capabilities that their business needs. And our vLLM team has deep expertise with a wide variety of models. So to bring all of that innovation and optimization to our customers, the validated models by Red Hat program has more than 20 collections of models and nearly 700 variations of models that have all been validated on vLLM and optimized for speed and efficiency. So this should give you a sense of our commitment when we say that Red Hat AI supports any model. In order to ensure that you can bring your company's data to your models, we have integrated a number of data services to simplify owning your AI experience. Things like RAG and fine tuning, and most importantly, integrated evaluations. All right. Now we're at the top. Agent services. Now this is where AI will make the biggest impact on differentiating your business into the future. Agents are no longer just an experiment or a clever automation. They are core to every Enterprise AI strategy. It won't be unusual in the future to hear that a company has thousands or tens of thousands of agents. So our goal is to make sure you have the AI platform that can manage those agents securely today. In fact, I'm 100% certain that there's some AI agents running somewhere in your organization right now -- and they bring with them a series of challenges. The first challenge is the exponential impact that AI agents will have on your inference requirements. Remember, if you don't have control over your inference usage, you don't have control over your token economics. The second is sprawl. Your team is building with CrewAI, your marketing director figured out OpenClaw and hundreds of employees downloaded Claude code or Codex. So if your AI agent strategy doesn't manage sprawl and give your teams choice, you will have frustrated employees. And if your AI agent security strategy doesn't support multiple types of agents, you will have more than frustration from your security and compliance teams. Remember, Red Hat AI supports any cloud, any accelerator, model, and AI agent. We call this bring your own agents. To enable this level of choice, the AI platform needs to deliver agentOps. Identity matters. Every agent gets a verified, authorized identity. Life cycle matters. Every agent can be versioned, updated, and rolled back. Tool calling matters. So native support for MCP services connects agents to the tools and data that define your Enterprise. And most importantly, tracing and monitoring matter. This enables to platform to track agent interactions. So when you give your teams choice and your IT teams control, this turns bring your own agents into agents as a service that's managed by the AI platform. So to bring it all together, Red Hat delivers the complete Enterprise AI stack from the AI accelerators up through the AI agents. Tightly integrated and totally open with every layer connected and secured and open. So now let's check out how this goes into action with BNP Paribas. With a footprint of more than 60 countries and 180,000 employees, BNP Paribas is a leader. AI has been a priority since 2016, and they view it as a strategic asset for developing a new way to bank. Now most companies talk about AI in terms of saving money or being more efficient. But what about AI leading to value and growth? So far, the bank says it's generated nearly $600 million in additional value from AI. $600 million in additional value from leveraging the strategic asset. They rely on 750AI experts and 3,000 data experts. And today they are architecting the next era of finance by scaling one of Europe's most formidable AI factories. To fuel 1,000 use cases, the bank has unified its predictive and generative AI strategy, and that is helping BNP industrialize AI use cases and deploy models at scale. So the AI factory platform leverages GPU computing to operationalize AI capabilities across the bank. And they have transformed GPU performance into minutes long service. They uphold the highest standards for digital sovereignty. They have made tremendous strides in operationalizing AI for its business users. And let's not forget about that $600 million in additional value that I mentioned. That's something any board would love to hear about these days. So what we're doing today for AI is what we did for all the other pillars of Enterprise IT. Think Linux, Kubernetes, and more. We're doing this in collaboration with our partner eco-system, including NVIDIA. We have co-engineered a foundation that lets you move into actual production. Joining me now is Justin Boitano. [ Applause ] All right. DJ JB right here. So, Justin, I got to say our joint work on the Red Hat AI factory with NVIDIA has been a highlight for the year. That's about giving customers this consistent and sovereign foundation across the hybrid cloud so they can own their own intelligence. But what do you see in terms of interest? >> JUSTIN BOITANO: First, it's awesome to be here with you, Chris. And it's great to be back here at Red Hat Summit. This is where open source is born. Red Hat is the company that is synonymous with industrializing open source software. We are told that Enterprise need a platform to build and form and scale specialize AI agents. And they can run them securely across a multicloud and hybrid cloud environment. So this Red Hat AI factory brings us that foundation for every Enterprise. It combines Red Hat's open source platform with NVIDIA accelerated run times. Our open models and open inference stack. So the customers can customize with the best token and power efficiency. >> CHRIS WRIGHT: So the release includes the new governed model as a service experience and gives developers the seamless access to curated models like Nemotron. We have already announced GA support for NVIDIA Grace Blackwell and a road map to land day 0 support for the upcoming Vera Rubin architecture. You guys are moving at the speed of light. Why is that tight synchronization so important? >> JUSTIN BOITANO: We are living through the world's biggest I will call it industrial revolution as we build out AI. When we think of the infrastructure being deployed, it's what we call a five layer cake. Energy, chips, infrastructure, models, and applications of the agents. And you have got to fully optimize all of that so you get the best token efficiency to automate work. You have got to convert power into tokens, and these tokens are going to be the intelligence that powers your business. When we build a new rack scale architecture like the Blackwell system, we are building a system with six processors. We go through extreme code design, and in this process, we make sure we squeeze every bit of power efficiency out of that rack. But to realize the benefits, you have got to continue to optimize the infras infrastructure, model serving layer, and the agents so that when customers set up new platforms, they immediately get their biggest business advantage. >> CHRIS WRIGHT: Your extreme co-design at the chip level and connect at the software level is super important. We talked about moving from simple chatbots to fully autonomous agentic AI is exciting. But it brings up pretty serious security concerns. We are collaborating on the OpenShell project. How do you see this security-first mindset helping Enterprises to trust that agents can do the long-running tasks and bring value in regulated environments? >> JUSTIN BOITANO: Agents are advancing at tremendous speed. But one of the fundamental innovations of OpenCloud was self evolving. It was writing on the fly and re-inserting into the application, which can be absolutely terrifying. Where we are as an industry, which we believe is a huge productivity gain. We think every company will deploy agents. We gave all 40,000 employees access to their first agent and now employees want more at NVIDIA. As you start to deploy into every work flow into how we run the business across the board, you know, agents become core to our work. We want to run them and the intelligence behind them as much as we can on infrastructure that we operate and we control so that we make sure we can control our costs. But you have got to do it in a way that you can govern it. We have got to do the same thing can agents. First we built this platform we call OpenShell. It's a secure govern layer. And the second thing is introducing confidential computing with NVIDIA together. And we're doing this so you can ask of your frontier model companies to run on the infrastructure you own. And we are starting to see quite a bit of excitement. From our experience, no matter what agents people want to use, Claude or Codex, Lang chain, we want to have a unified secure run time to be able to govern them at scale. And then we see the world being a multi-agent, hybrid cloud world across every Enterprise globally. >> CHRIS WRIGHT: I love that. Multiagent, multicloud, hybrid cloud. I often thought for AI to work, organizations need technical independence. T they can't be locked into a single black box. So think about how our work on the open source run times and consistent infrastructure, how does that help a CTO feel confident that they are not just renting their future but building a sustainable strategy? >> JUSTIN BOITANO: A lot of this comes down to you have to control your des any. So having choice on where you run the tin choice on where you run the agents, how you control the context, which is all the information going to the business is critical. And our collaboration being built on opens is a key part of this. By combining open source software and data sets, open post-training techniques, and Openshell is the run time. Customers have the choice to run anywhere they want with commercial support offered together between Red Hat and NVIDIA, we are giving Enterprises the keys to owning their ultimate outcome with agents. >> CHRIS WRIGHT: I love that. Giving agent to our customers to owning their own AI strategy. There's a ton going on and clearly a lot more work to do. The co-engineering is exciting. We are doing tons of great work. For now, Justin, thanks for being here. >> JUSTIN BOITANO: Thanks, Chris. It's been awesome. [ Applause ] >> CHRIS WRIGHT: All right. Well, Verizon is the perfect customer story to close the morning. This U.S. telecommunications giant has operationalized so much of what we have talked about today. They're proving that a unified, open platform is the only way to modernize a footprint as big as theirs while staying scrappy and reliable. Please join me in welcoming Praveen Atreya to the stage. >> PRAVEEN ATREYA: Hello. >> CHRIS WRIGHT: Your CEO has been super vocal about this. Verizon becoming a scrappier competitor through simplification. When you're managing this massive scale of a network like yours, how does moving to a unified platform actually deliver that simplicity while maintaining the urgency needed to stay ahead in this market? >> PRAVEEN ATREYA: Good morning, everyone. Great to see you all. Thank you for having me. At Verizon we have embraced that in order to thrive in a market like ours, you need radical customercentrism. That requires efficiency. What that demands is a software centric network model. It moves at the speed of software. And the key enabler for that is a powerful and a performant private cloud platform, not just at the core in the data centers, but also in the edge, the far edge of the network as well. And this is what offers control, security, observen't, and a host of common capability that essentially enables every network element to now become an app, an application. And what this does is it allows us to fully embrace the software and the cloud-operating model. This is what drives continuous improvement through seamless upgradability, self-healing, and continuous self-optimization, which in turn delivers more value, more delight to our customers over time. >> CHRIS WRIGHT: I love that. Just an application. You make it sound so easy. The Verizon cloud platform has been on a ten-year journey. 5G is cloud native. I know you have been working on consolidating legacy and virtual environments along the way. What's the strategic value? >> PRAVEEN ATREYA: Thank you. VCP is what we call it. It's a ten-year anniversary. You have been a strong partner from day 0. To answer your question, when you run a network and a business at the scale of Verizon, and I will throw out some stats. We have nearly 150 million retail wireless connections. That's just mobile. In addition we also have nearly 17 million broadband connections. But a natural consequence of this scale is that you also end up with heterogenous and a multigeneration technology and an application landscape. Modern, highly decomposed microservices alongside legacy monolithic applications on VMs. This is where a single platform that handles all of this seamless transition of workloads enabling various heritages of applications to work closely together. It makes a big difference. It makes a big difference towards simplicity and efficiency and enables us to be better for our customers. >> CHRIS WRIGHT: Yeah. I'm picturing heirloom applications. We have interesting legacy there. We have been talking about AI this morning, and it's definitely moving from that buzz word to a core operational tool for Enterprises. And I know you've described a goal of building autonomous networks like a self-driving network. How has this co-developed platform that we're creating helping you bridge the gap between collecting data and actually automating the network in realtime to minimize any customer disruption? >> PRAVEEN ATREYA: This is a great one. The data to insight to recommendation to action loop has been core and happens repeatedly in the context of network automation today. In fact, not just for plan changes like life cycle management and upgrades, for unplanned rainy day fault remediation and for performance improvements, we have made millions of changes in 2025 alone in closed loop -- no human in the loop. This is fascinating in its own right. While this is true, where we're going is 10X. With AI, everyone is a developer, and with agentic AI, your best folks can be amplified and scaled almost limitlessly. And so what we can do in the context of agentic AI with network automation is far beyond what we can do with structured automation. For example, a network operator could detect network experience degradations for each individual customer rather than aggregate alarms that smooth out individual customer-related data points. And then you can drive complex triage loops for each incident with the reasoning capabilities these agents offer, which can then autonomously drive recommendations that lead to actions that resolve these customer issues in near realtime before they ask for help. And while that is super powerful, that's just one of the scenarios that AI in network enabled through AI runtimes such as OpenShift run time and the hyperevolving models can help in terms of building, planning, running an effort. >> CHRIS WRIGHT: That certainly demonstrates radical customer sen -- centricity. What are your experiences in realizing benefits from this whole modernization journey that you have been on? >> PRAVEEN ATREYA: There are many. Let me name a couple. First of all, we have moved on from the state of forced hardware cycles. We have a complex network with multiple vendors and we are used to situations such as hey, if you want that feature, you need a new box in order to support that. We don't have that any more. We are elastic. We can add hardware horizontally. In addition, the modularity of software is another key benefit. It has enabled us to replace components such as replacing an algorithm for channel state estimation with an AI deep neural network algorithm that does the same job but much better. All of this is now possible fairly seamlessly, and last but not least, the scale and maturity of our virtual radial access network is something that makes a real difference for our customers. We are now able to deliver new capability at an unprecedented pace nation-wide alongside having the resilience that the most reliable network demands. >> CHRIS WRIGHT: That's cool. You are bringing me back in time. >> PRAVEEN ATREYA: DSP. >> CHRIS WRIGHT: I have had the good fortune of being on this journey for those ten years. I wanted to say thank you so much for coming here and sharing that journey with all of us, with everyone here. So thanks. >> PRAVEEN ATREYA: Thank you. Thank you very much. We are looking forward to the next ten. >> CHRIS WRIGHT: Have a great session, folks. All right, here is what I want you to take away from everything that you have just seen. Most Enterprise AI platforms ask you to make a choice. You can have the power of frontier models or you can have control, governance, security, cost visibility, data sovereignty. Red Hat AI doesn't force you to make that choice. Models as a service gives your teams the model access they need. Any model governed and guardrailed at a cost your finance team can understand. And agents as a service gives your organization the full power of agentic AI with the security posture your IT team can actually defend. AI applications built on your data give you capabilities that your competitors simply cannot replicate. Because they don't have your data. They don't have your domain knowledge. They don't have your fine-tuned models. And all of this runs on the same distributed inference infrastructure, the same security layer, governance controls and token economics model. This is what matters when the AI market moves again. The Enterprises we work with are already prepared for what's next because they own the platform that it runs on. Red Hat AI is the Enterprise AI strategy that compounds in your favor. Now heroes know that each new day brings new challenges. Some days you're refusing to let legacy black boxes define your future. Other days, you might be taking on the tough but necessary work of building the foundations that allow your teams to scale. And on others, you're focused on the reality of AI work, ensuring that your organization can run on any model on any accelerator in any cloud and any agent without sacrificing your digital sovereignty. So have a great rest of your day at the Product Spotlights and at the breakout sessions, and we'll see you right back here tomorrow morning for product announcements, for customer stories, and cool technology demos. Thank you. [ Applause ]

## PDF Text: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf
--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 1 ---
Note
Tue, May 12, 2026 7:33AM
1:30:12
SUMMARY KEYWORDS
AI agents, open source, hybrid cloud, virtualization costs, regulatory environment, digital sovereignty,
OpenShift, Kubernetes, generative AI, inference services, model services, agent services,
token economics, network automation, customer centricity.
SPEAKERS
Speaker 10, Speaker 1, Speaker 7, Speaker 9, Speaker 2, Speaker 6, Speaker 4, Speaker 8, Speaker 5,
Speaker 3
Speaker 1 00:10
Look at this crap. Every one of you is responsible for something that cannot break, cannot go
down. Cannot be wrong, whether it's millions of financial transactions being processed every
hour or healthcare networks that physicians depend on for life affecting decisions, or the
millions of consumers served by telecommunications networks. That's just a normal week for
the people in this room. And here's what I think about a lot. The outcomes get all the attention,
the deployment measures, the SLAs, the uptime measurements, what doesn't get seen is the
craft behind them that makes it possible, the person that designed the architecture from
scratch, the person that migrated hundreds of virtual machines invisibly to the business. The
person that at 2am in the morning figures out the cause of an outage that wasn't in the run
book that takes real expertise, real creativity, and yet most of the world never sees it? I see it,
and I think it's important to address that before we talk about anything else today. Now, the
question for you hands up and be honest with me on this one, how many of you are managing
an environment today that is more complex than what you were managing two years ago. Put
your hands up. Okay. Now, keep your hands up if your budget has grown at the same rate as
that complexity. Yeah, there aren't a lot of hands left. Now think about in addition to this, how
many of you are being asked to run an AI initiative while also managing a legacy system that's
absolutely critical to your business. So these constraints, these pressures, the new initiative
pressure, the organizational friction, the legacy constraints, all happening at once. That is the
daily reality for the people in this room. That's the combination is the villain in the room. Think
about your reality. Your virtualization costs are out significantly. Your regulatory environment is
expanding beyond your compliance team's ability to keep up your board is probably pushing for
ROI on AI projects at this point that might not match your enterprise reality, and yet, your
people, your talented, hard working people, are being asked to modernize and secure and
operate and innovate on the same timelines with the same budget, that gap, that chasm
S

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 2 ---
between the complexity of your environment and the resources you have to work with it. And
the speed at which your business needs to compete, that is the real story of enterprise. It right
now, not just AI. And if we're not talking about that chasm, then we're not talking about your
reality. Now I've actually seen these pressures before that lead to a question at practically
every customer that I talk to, what do I build on? Not what vendor, not what Cloud, not what
model, what is the foundation that lets me compete at the speed that my business needs, while
not breaking what absolutely cannot be broken my business. I've seen this before, twice,
actually, both times in ways that fundamentally reshaped the industry, the first time was in the
shift from proprietary hardware and proprietary operating systems to open infrastructure to
that question, the what do I build On question? The answer turned out to be Linux. Red Hat
brought Linux to the enterprise. With Red Hat, enterprise, Linux and REL became a standard
practically every industry. Everything that followed was built on Linux, cloud, IoT, mobile. Think
about today. Every AI model, every AI agent, runs on Linux. That foundation that we built
together is now the reality of what everything we depend on today is running. Now. The second
time this came up was in the shift to cloud native So containers, Kubernetes, micro services.
Now at Red Hat, we didn't invent Docker. We didn't invent Kubernetes. We brought Kubernetes
to the enterprise through OpenShift, and now that is a standard that 1000s of customers
depend on for their hybrid cloud. We are at the third inflection point right now with AI and Red
Hat will bring AI to the enterprise to make that an open standard. And I think the pattern holds
from the last two the organizations that will have the most success in this environment, they
are not necessarily going to be the ones that spend the most or the ones that move the fastest.
They will be the ones that build on the right foundation, virtual machines, containers, AI agents.
They are not competing with each other. They are converging. And the answer to this is not
going to be one cloud or one vendor or one model, it will be the right platform with a broad
ecosystem that supports it, and I'm biased, but I think the organizations that will have the most
success will pick a platform with an open foundation below. Now, speaking of AI, let's take a
minute and talk about our AI journey at Red Hat, because we're going through the same
inflection point at the same time as all of you. As you know, Red Hat is an open source
company, so what we build, we share. That is how open source works, and at this point, we
have deployed generative AI to every organization in the company, each organization is looking
for ways to either drive more efficiency for them or create more value for you customers. For
example, you might have heard about or used as
Speaker 2 07:57
red, which is our
Speaker 1 07:57
interactive chat bot it runs on our customer support. Now, this chatbot has been trained on
over two decades of support information, knowledge base, support capabilities within Red Hat,
and this is a case where hopefully this is more value for you when you're operating in the
known of support, but it is also more efficient for us and Saves us millions of dollars a year. Now
in this journey, we've had plenty of successes, we have also had plenty of failures, and that's
easy to do when the technology is changing practically weekly now, but those learnings are
going actively back into the platforms that we provide you, everything you're going to hear
about at Summit that our confidence, our belief that we can be the right foundation for your
S
S

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 3 ---
journey. It's not just a market position, it's what we are actually doing in Red Hat. Now, about a
year ago, we moved from the world of chatbots to building AI agents. Specifically, we wanted to
build an agentic system that could go through a massive body of internal knowledge and return
something genuinely useful, not a summary, but an actual answer. We started where many of
you probably start with, Frontier models, the best, most capable models that we could work
with. We wanted to understand what was possible before we decided how to build this right.
And it worked. After we had about 10 agents working together, it was clear that this system
worked and would continue to work. So we did what was very natural to Red Hat. We started to
optimize. We went through layer by layer, figuring out which of these models could be replaced
by open weight models running on bllm, on infrastructure we control. First, we actually rebuilt
the document search capabilities. We found out that small models excel in the correctly
formatted documents of finding the right answers. So we moved document search. Next came
hallucination detection. Our 10 initial agents has now scaled to almost 200 and you will deal
with hallucinations. Small models were an excellent way for us to do that, double checking and
hold hallucinations a day. We moved from hallucinations to safety management to controlling
what we would answer and commit small models were incredible there. Lastly, we move to
planning the most complicated step, where an agent has to look at all the other agents it could
talk to, and figure out what questions to ask to get that genuinely useful answer, layer by layer,
we went through the entire application to figure out what we could switch from the frontier
models to open source models running on our infrastructure and technology today, 85% 5% of
the calls running on our deep research agent system called Open Source open weight models
running on Red Hat infrastructure. And here's what surprised us, of course, this was more
efficient, but our results actually got better, and it wasn't because frontier models weren't the
right place to start, but when you own the model and you own the infrastructure, you can
optimize in a way that a frontier model that its general purpose could never anticipate. You
anticipated. The heart of our system today is running on Nemo, Tron, super, nematron, nano
and IBM granite. This is all running on Red Hat infrastructure, and now we are at an efficiency
point a cost, a unit cost perspective, that we are able to start rolling this out to the entire
company. What we built not a demo. This wasn't a pilot. This is fundamentally changing how we
operate at Red Hat and our learnings go directly back into the platforms that we provide for
you all. That is how open source works. But beyond the technical proof, beyond having a
system that works the power of hybrid AI, seeing what smaller open weight models can do,
here is what we learned about the process, the actual work. And I want to be direct on this, to
these software developers in the room. You are not getting replaced by AI, but where you
spend your time and energy really drastically figuring out how to build and shape evaluation for
these AI created systems figuring out how to build the next generation of continuous
integration systems in a world where anyone can contribute, Figuring out how to create the
next generation testing frameworks that maintain some stability, the humans that build the
rails that AI runs on. That is where your craft is going to, the managers in the room you are
about to be tested on your ability to delegate now AI agents, they are going to expand the
capabilities and capacity of your team, in some cases, drastically. They're also going to
pressure test every process that you have, and in your case, as a manager, they will pressure
test your ability to understand the technology, truly understand your processes, and be able to
decompose complicated work, to be able To delegate to both humans and agents. Your ability
to do this will largely define how well you can lead in this environment and to every other
person in every role in the company. You now have no barriers to contribute your knowledge
into a system like this. At this point, we have had content knowledge contributed into our deep
research agent from every organization in the company, but beyond knowledge, beyond
content, we have had code contributed from every organization in the company, from legal,
from inside sales, from operations, from teams that have never written a line of production.
Code in their careers have been able to positively impact our agentic system when you couple

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 4 ---
AI and its ability to amplify what we can do with a well engineered system, I promise you it will
Change what you can build as a company. AI isn't optional at this point, whether it brings you
energy or whether it creates real uncertainty. And I think for many of us, it is a combination, a
mixture of both. It can't be ignored. But there also isn't a single path. Some of you might be
ready to run AI or are in production. Some of you might be just trying to figure out what is hype
and what is reality at this point, and some of you might be just trying to get your infrastructure
in order to even make this a reality, all of that is legitimate, what I would caution against are
the extremes, either moving so slow that when you Start you can never catch up, or moving so
fast that you build on a foundation that you cannot address what comes next, because I
promise you, something will come next in this environment. So here's what I can promise you,
everything you're going to hear about at Summit is what Red Hat is actually doing. Will not be
theory, won't be roadmap slides. This will be production experience. I've genuinely never been
more excited about the potential of the application of this technology, and also that the timing
is perfect for us to figure out this journey together. Let's get to it. Welcome to Red Hat summit
2026 please welcome
Speaker 3 18:19
Red Hat Senior Vice President and Chief red of the and Chief Product Officer. Ashish badani,
Speaker 4 18:33
thank you, Matt. Let's talk about something that we've heard from hundreds of customers,
perhaps many of you in this room for the last 12 to 18 months, there is a virtualization cost
crisis. That's only part of the infrastructure challenge that you're facing. The deeper problem is
this, your infrastructure layer needs to increasingly do more than you plan for niche to support
virtual machines, for your legacy of mission critical application. Need to support containers,
cloud native applications for the workloads that your developers are building today and for
tomorrow, and for AI, as you heard from Matt, needs to support a future where you have GPU
intensive intraceby workloads, three fundamentally different workload types. Now most
platforms will ask you to independently manage them, three different ways, three different
operation models and three different cost structures. We feel that's an unsustainable ask for
any chain where there was one platform with one operational model and one consistent
security posture. That is exactly what OpenShift delivers, and it's different from every other
platform in the market today, virtual machines, containers and AI workloads, all running side by
side, manage the same way, operate the same way, secure the same way, providing that
platform though Just one part of the answer, as you all well know, migrating that modulation
environment, it's not a weekend project, it's complex, touches hundreds of applications, carries
real business risk. We know this because we have done this with some of our largest customers
at scale, and so have a partners. We know something else too. The hardest part that work is
not the technology. It's never been the technology. It's the people, the engineers, who have to
keep the old environment running at full availability while simultaneously building the new one,
all without additional headcap and without missing a single SLA in the process. Now that is a
big ask. That's exactly the kind of ask that gets made without anyone in finance fully
understanding what requires so we built migration assessment tooling that gives you complete
visibility into your application estate before you move even a single workload. In the last year,
we assessed over 1.1 million virtual machines. We established a base migration approach that
S
S

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 5 ---
lets you move your own base full fallback options at every stage. In the last year, we migrated
nearly 400,000 which machines, the number of VMs running on opens, grew by 417% in just
the last year. Simply put clusters running VMs on OpenShift, way up customers running VMs on
OpenShift, way up. Now to achieve the scale that you need, we invested deeply in the systems
integrated ecosystem that will actually be in the room when this work happens. So when you
think about this holistically, this isn't a migration from one VM platform to another, it's a
migration really from a virtualization strategy your monetization strategy. Now, I know what
some of you are thinking right now, why just go all in with hyperscaler? Just move it all to the
cloud. Fair question. Here are three things that hyperscale and native services fundamentally
cannot give you first consistency when you build on hyperscale and native services, you'll get a
different operational model on every cloud, different tooling, security model, different
networking primitives. OpenShift gives you one operational model works the same way
everywhere on your private infrastructure, on AWS, on Azure, on Google Cloud, on the edge,
and even in disconnected and regulated margins, second independence, when you standardize
deeply on hyper scale as native services, you trade negotiating leverage For convenience.
That's antithetical to the Red Hat business model. It's built on your flexibility, not your own. You
start talking about open hybrid cloud 10 years ago, it is foundational to who we are. Third,
regulated reality for many organizations in this room, financial services, healthcare,
government, telecommunications, 100% public cloud is impossible due to legal constraints.
Hybrid, then, is not really a compromise for these industries. It is the only viable strategy and
Red Hat is the only platform that makes hybrid genuine, first class architecture, not now. We
don't ask you to take our word for any of this. You can see what industry analysts are saying,
but nothing I can say, or analysts can say is more credible than hearing it directly from the
people who have actually done this work. Motorola Solutions is a perfect example of an
enterprise that saw the cost of staying on legacy virtualization is not only a financial burden but
a strategic risk. They saw that villain early and chose a path that prioritizes both resiliences and
speed. So now let's hear about moodle's journey, directly from anuta baraku, Senior Director of
core platforms and services. Hey, Emily, welcome. Welcome to Red Hat. Thanks for joining us
now. Your team supports infrastructure for first responders where every second counts, destroy
your infrastructure environment that you work in

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 6 ---
Speaker 5 25:32
Sure. Ashish, thanks for having me here at Motorola Solutions. We built that is the backbone for
first responders. We're talking about dispatchers, police officers, firefighters and emergency
medics, and we support them for the full incident life cycle, all the way from when the 911, call
lands, to dispatching help, to responding to help, managing cases and communication
throughout the incident life cycle, every second save is a second useful save a life, and we use
hybrid infrastructure to provide and deploy these applications our core workflows, like call
handling, dispatch this day on prem, we want To ensure near zero latency and total reliability,
even when the internet fails. But we use Cloud as a vital redundancy solution and as also as a
platform for advanced innovation. We deploy our AI workloads like transcription, translation,
summarization, redaction, into cloud. So essentially, we are providing on prem stability with
Cloud Scale intelligence. And the key caveat of all of this is that the system must be up. It must
be resilient under extreme pressure. We don't just manage servers and code. We provide the
certainty that the system works when the citizen calls for help. So only your team you're
delivering absolutely mission critical environments and platforms. Now last year, many leaders,
maybe in the room and others listening in, were hit with the virtualization cost prices face the
potential 3x 5x increase in costs for your legacy footprint. Why'd you decide that red hat was a
good fit with you? Yeah, I think, like many of you, we ran into this crisis, and we looked at
various options, and then there were options where, like, we could just simply slap the
hypervisor and live with it, but that's not what we wanted. We turned this past crisis into an
opportunity to modernize our entire infrastructure, and moving to OpenShift virtualization
allowed us to treat this transition as a natural evolution of our application stack. So just to give
you guys some context, we managed two separate worlds. We had a legacy world of virtual
machines, and we had containers running in cloud. And as you could imagine, there's a lot of
silos, there's different tooling, there's different processes and operations were very inefficient.
With OpenShift virtualization, we have moved to one Kubernetes page foundation that can
scale across on prem and cloud and essentially unify our operations with one hybrid
deployment fabric. And the transition was also seamless. We were able to run virtual machines
and containers at the same time on our plan, and that allow the teams to move workloads over
a period of time without having to be like a big migration project that never ends. So whether
it's the cloud, the data center, the edge, we manage everything using one single lens with the
same security tooling, same observatory tooling and same deployment pipelines. So
Speaker 4 29:09
this hybrid cloud infrastructure a perfect use case for deploying open ship. Can you talk about
now adopting the Red Hat platform benefiting your end users?
S
S

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 7 ---
Speaker 5 29:17
Yes, so we work day in day out with public safety customers. And our customer base is risk
averse, and for a good reason, they need the stability on prem so that they can provide
response in mission critical situations, but they also need cloud agility so that they can use
these latest technological advancements to respond better, and the hybrid model has really
helped us serve that purpose. Today, we provide two unique value propositions to our
customers. One, we're able to provide cloud as a redundancy option, so if a call handling
system on prem goes down, they're able to fall back to the cloud, or they can choose cloud as a
primary and fall back to on prem. That transition is really helping. Two is like with all the
advancements around AI, we are able to run our AI workflows in cloud, but seamlessly integrate
them into their workflows on prem. So think of when a 911, call taker is taking a call, they're
able to view live transcripts. An officer in the field is able to use translation on their radios and
talk to someone in a different language. We are providing summarization across like case
management and other things. So essentially, this hybrid infrastructure helped us integrate
cloud and on prem in a seamless manner, and so that the end user doesn't really have to worry
about where the workloads are running. That
Speaker 4 30:47
makes a lot of sense. Only been and the platform is definitely building value for end users. In
the end, this journey was about more than just a technology swap. It's operational shift for your
organization. So let's look ahead at the next several years. What are the primary lessons that
you take away from this modernization or inform your vision for the future model?
Speaker 5 31:10
So I think the first step of modernization of our virtualization layer has really helped us create a
strong foundation for our hybrid fabric between alternate cloud and we are able to serve
everything from our core public safety systems to advanced AI models. And we are continuing
down this journey. Our goal is to reduce the complexity so that our talent are working on
mission critical applications, Building Better use cases, enabling better response flows without
actually having to worrying about infrastructure silos. Hybrid is the end state for us. We want to
take advantage of the cloud capability while maintaining absolute sovereignty of data and edge
operations for our customers. So Ashish, in a nutshell, success for us means infrastructure and
technology becomes invisible. It should be like oxygen, always there, always reliable and never
something a police officer or a firefighter has to think about. We are not just building a
platform. We are building the certainty that the tools will work when they're needed the most,
in moments that matter.
Speaker 4 32:25
Thank you already. So moments that matter indeed critical work that you and your team are
doing. Your your team is really proving out that infrastructure modernization is the foundation
for everything that will come next. So you didn't solve the cost problem. Didn't waste that
S
S
S
S

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 8 ---
crisis. You built the platform for the next decade of public safety. So thank you again for
sharing with us what it looks like to face downstream risks and win. Thank you for having me.
What an amazing story of absolute life saving, mission critical work by an adeep in the Motorola
Solutions team. Now it goes without saying that the world faces uncertainty right now, from
geopolitics to AI to new regulations impacting digital sovereignty, this conversation about
sovereignty used to have been in the legal department, and now it's also happening in the
architecture Review Board. Requirements shape how your AI models can be trained, what
decisions an AI system is allowed to make autonomously, what product trade you're required to
maintain every AI generated output, and that regulatory landscape is expanding. I've talked to
many of you concerns about the EU, AI act, sec cyber disclosure obligations, data residence
requirements across dozens of jurisdictions that continue to develop industry specific
regulations, financial services, healthcare, government, all being rewritten to account for AI for
us, the answer is obvious. It always has been, freedom and choice. Freedom and choice
delivered by open source give you control and transparency, which is ultimately what you
need, underpinning a sovereign architecture. This is the reason that the largest financial
institution in the world, the largest government agencies, the most heavily regulated
healthcare systems, are choosing Open Source infrastructure, the digital sovereignty solution
that we've built that builds upon decades of experience, helping our customers, our partners,
build on prem, private and hybrid environments any organization, whether it's an enterprise, a
cloud service provider, A telco, factory, and our increasingly Neo cloud can use our platforms to
build sovereign all private AI enabled clouds. Our solution spans our entire portfolio, OpenShift,
REL Ansible and Red Hat AI. Today, we announced a number of new capabilities to help our
customers and partners meet increasingly strict requirements from data technology and
operational sovereignty. First, we've enhanced our compliance framework to make it easier to
prepare for NIST two GDPR, Dora audits, compliance checks and whole lot more. We're now
also offering a cross platform installer to build landing zones that immediately enforce specific
operational and compliance guardrails. We built a new service fulfillment API that enables you
to quickly stand up and provision service offerings and ownership. You can start with virtual
machines and clusters, add new AI services like GPU or models or inferencing as a service, and
as our partners, you can extend this API. We also plan to provide you in Region content delivery
in your to help you safeguard your software supply chain, improve your operational resilience.
You can now download rel from within the EU, and we plan to expand the CDN to additional Red
Hat products by the end of this year, end of 2026 we've had Red Hat confirmed stateside
support in the US for 10 years. Just in April, we launched confirmed sovereign support for the
EU, ensuring support is delivered by engineers are legally authorized to work in the EU and
provide support from there, and we'll look to roll this out to other regions in the near future.
Help you get started as in migration for your machines. We also help release the Red Hat
sovereignty readiness assessment and open source assessment that gives you a structured
way to evaluate your current posture against the critical sovereignty domains, identify the gaps
that you have, the ones that put your business at risk without a roadmap to close them. And
finally, lastly, IBM announced a new solution, IBM sovereign core, designed to help
organizations build and operate AI ready sovereign environments and verify their control,
giving enterprise and governments an end to end approach to the sovereignty that's built on
top of Red Hat's sovereign platforms. Now let's look at how Red Hat is already helping
customers with their approach to the sovereignty by talking about something we all do, flying
plane now, most of us did it this week. Really think about the GPS behind it. If your flight
crossed European airspace, it was coordinated by your control, the organization responsible for
managing safely over 11 million flights a year across the entire continent. Now that's a big job
with a lot of moving pieces, literally. But here's the challenge, their core. It backbone is 30
years old, and with European air traffic projected to grow beyond 12 million flights annually by
2030 good enough was no longer an option. While it's robust, their infrastructure was a Walt

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 9 ---
got made it nearly impossible to scale to meet the demands of modern aviation or to use more
machine learning and AI to improve decision making. So they set out. They set out to build a
unified mission critical digital platform. They didn't just want to move to the cloud. They needed
digital sovereignty as a public and Pan European organization. They have to be mindful of new
policies. They needed the freedom choose cloud providers while maintaining full core
transparency and audit will control all the infrastructures, and this, this is where Red Hat comes
in. What's really cool here is that they are refactoring 30 years of institutional knowledge into a
modern API architecture, and in the process, they are transforming the post operational data
analysis from a three day wait to real time capability that is already helping identify more fuel
efficient flight tools across Europe for the development teams, their engineers are no longer
spending their days on maintenance. They're focusing on high value applications that keep sky
safe for all of us. Euro controls perfect example of how we support our customers as they face
digital sovereignty challenges. They're taking a 30 year old legacy and they're turning it into
fast, flexible and soft future. We are incredibly proud to be a part of that journey. Now we've
spoken about the increasing regular environment and the need for operational resilience and
business continuity. These are all making the case for architecture that accounts for
sovereignty. We're now going to look at how that vision becomes a reality. Please join me in
welcoming Raghu. Chakraborty, EVP of engineering and GM Americas for 442 Hello, Raghu,
welcome Red Hat Summit. Thanks for being here with us and looking forward to hearing your
thoughts about core 42 you've been established sovereign cloud operator for over five years,
but this landscape has been shifting rapidly. What's the fundamental problem that you're
solving for organizations in the UAE, regulated industries? Why is good enough? This is the
theme that we talked about for a little while. Now no longer an option for sovereignty.
Speaker 6 41:04
First of all, thanks Ashish for having me, and thanks for being an incredible partner for us
strategic in our journey towards sovereign AI regulated industries, specifically health, defense,
national security or financial services face a binary choice right now, public cloud convenience
versus absolute control, autonomy and technology is key to avoiding the kill switch problem.
Good enough platforms compromise sovereignty and that and that results in shadow AI or data
leakage, risks that are operationally and legally unacceptable. It's certainly true Raghu about
good enough platforms not being necessary. We've got to go higher than that, crossing bar
exactly as a cloud provider and a NEO cloud we are trusted based layer for of the G 42
intelligence grid and the national digital platforms Across UAE, our platform enables AI
applications that citizens enterprises interact with daily to operate at scale with compliance and
with the reliability that critical services require. We are designed for classified, top secret
workloads, extending our sovereign portfolio to the most sensitive areas of government and
regulated industry. More than 70 public companies and private organizations have adopted the
core 42 sovereign cloud as
S

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 10 ---
Speaker 4 42:54
fantastic. So it's clear the core 40 is making a lot of progress here. Now we often talk about
partnerships. You mentioned that as well. It's a deep engineering collaboration, and we
appreciate that you were the first in the world to adopt OpenStack, 18.1 running on OpenShift
for your private cloud. Congratulations to you and the team for doing that. Can you tell us
about that decision to build on the stack, how our teams are working together to influence the
future of certain features. While data and operational mandates were paramount, we required a
platform
S

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 11 ---
Speaker 6 43:30
capable of anchoring our technological sovereignty, which is a very important component, by
the way, with equal precision compared to the other requirements. Red Hat, OpenStack and
OpenShift emerged as the premier solution for meeting this critical technological sovereignty
requirement. By running OpenStack on OpenShift, we have unified the operational model for
VMs containers across 1000s of servers that we have in production. Also, this is a really a core
bill. It's all about collaboration. Our monthly cadence calls with the Red Hat engineers allows us
to provide direct feedback and also, especially on must have solutions. And we have really
solved about 50% of all the enhancements that we have escalated so far by using enterprise
grade OpenStack and OpenShift, we provide the freedom to build and scale our own terms, on
our own terms, while avoiding the foreign control or the vendor lock in that happens this
collaboration turned our platform into a robust, high redundancy architecture, ensuring we
meet hundreds of specific security policies set by the UAE National Security Council. That
makes a lot of sense, and you really are in the business of managing national critical
infrastructure, which, of course, means zero room for error. Why did he choose red hat to build
this software platform? It was it came down to this right. Red Hat's work on OpenStack has
turned it into a genuinely robust foundation for a full spectrum of sovereign cloud deployments,
from fully air gap solutions to restricted versus connected models that we serve. The breadth
combined with the stability and the maturity of the Red Hat platform is why we see red hat as a
premier partner for our sovereign infrastructure. This collaboration reflects how national scale
AI must be built with sovereignty, resilience and long term engineered control into its
foundation. Our customers, such as large banks and government entities, trust us, because we
can verify that the diagnostic data, the audit data, stays in the region, and that support is
delivered by better in country personnel. This reduces the cost of complexity. We provision GPO
resources for AI in minutes rather than weeks, and our national disaster recovery program for
the government is already proving its ROI in terms of operational resilience. So great progress
so far, undoubtedly. Let's look ahead. You've described the work in the UAE as a proof of
concept for the rest of the world. So as you look to export this zombie model to other countries,
how do you see the Red Hat partnership evolving to help you scale out? Yeah, that's a critical
point, right? Core 42 is actually exporting the sovereign AI models, operational expertise and
infrastructure frameworks that other nations can build upon. Some examples of this are the AI
factory that we own and operate right here in the US, across five data centers with over 100
megawatts of AI capacity to serve the largest AI apps and the domain partnership that we
announced to deploy the largest Europe's AI compute capacity, or cluster in Italy, these reflect
the deliberate expansion strategy that we have around the globe. And Red Hat is our Geo
expansion partner. We want to be AWS of the sovereign cloud. Imagine that AWS for the
sovereign cloud next, decade of AI will separate the organizations that build resilient, durable
foundations from those that scale quickly on fragile ones. Whether it's connected, as I said,
restricted or fully air gapped, we are building the standard global platform. Partnering with Red
Hat gives us a common technology platform that lets us modernize digital infrastructure
anywhere in the world.
S

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 12 ---
Speaker 4 48:29
Well, love that. Thank you for sharing your vision with us. You're obviously proving that at 442
you don't have to trade choice or control, can certainly have both. So thanks again for joining
us. Thank you. What a great story. Love the vision, love the ambition of core 42 and Raghu and
team. Now data sovereignty is the foundation, but AI sovereignty, as you heard from Raghu, is
the next evolution of the same challenge, and it is where the stakes are significantly higher. Let
me define AI sovereignty precisely the thing. It's a term that's getting used loosely. There are
three things you must own to have genuine AI sovereignty in your organization. One model,
sovereignty, the ability to choose which AI models run your environment, the ability to change
them as the market evolves, we're all seeing it will evolve dramatically, the ability to run them
anywhere based on what your business, your data, your regulators required two data
sovereignty, the peace of mind that the data you use train, fine tune and run your AI models
never leaves your control, that it stays in the jurisdictions your regulators require that it's not
used to train Anyone else's models without your explicit consent, that you know, that you know
precisely and verifiably where it lives and who has access to it at every moment, three
outcomes, the ability to audit every significant AI generated decision to explain it, trace it back
to the data and model that produced it, and if necessary, to override it. AI sovereignty isn't a
theoretical conversation. Customers are actively addressing this today. Caladon was founded in
1855 and began its journey as a state operated telegraph service in Norway for 170 years,
right? 170 years, Telenor has stayed at the forefront of every major communication ship today.
They are one of the most geographically diversified communications groups in the world,
serving millions across the Nordics as a nation. Here's a telephone giant that's operating in
highly regulated markets. Their challenge is the same villain that many of you face
operationalizing AI at scale while navigating a landscape of regulatory and security constraints.
Tell most customers, the government agencies, healthcare providers, critical infrastructure
operators that need AI that respects national borders they need high performance
infrastructure for model training and inference that remains verifiably secure and under the
control. They need sovereign AI, the telephone story bridges sovereignty and AI, it's a great
example of how closely these domains intersect for our customers globally. Telenor did not wait
for the market to define its future. They built the Telenor AI factory. The foundation of that is
the Red Hat AI factor, Nvidia. You'll hear more about that later in this keynote. This is Norway's
first sovereign and secure AI cloud service. They're already hosting multi tenant customers in
Norway. They're hosting Norway's own language models, and they're accelerating industrial
automation, voice to voice translation, private 5g network optimization, just as some example
customer use cases. So having heard all that Telenor is just not HELCO anymore, they're
sovereign, AI provider. So if an organization can margins over 170 years of history, and if an
organization can grow from managing telegraphs to being a sovereign AI powerhouse, that
every organization in this room and every one of you listening to us today has the potential to
do the same. Now, let me bring on our CTO. Chris Wright, onto the stage. We'll go deeper in AI
for the rest of the keynote.
Speaker 3 53:26
Please welcome Red Hat Chief Technology Officer and Senior Vice President of Global
Engineering. Chris Wright, you
S
S

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 13 ---
Speaker 7 53:43
I tell the graph to AI man, I love telenor's modernization story because they didn't just wait for
someone else to define their future. I mean, sitting out on the AI sidelines, while tempting given
all the change, is a totally failed strategy. In my 20 years at Red Hat, I just never seen any
technology move at this pace. If you're overwhelmed by the number of new things happening
in AI, I can say with confidence, you're not alone. It feels like there's hundreds of new
announcements every month, sometimes daily, but let me show you three examples of how I
think about the speed of change happening across AI. Three and a half years ago, everybody
had that. Do you remember where you were moment when generative AI and chat GPT went
from more of a research concept to something that millions of people were just using
immediately? Nobody was prepared for this level of change, the least of which was enterprise,
IT organizations. Then, eight months later, meta responded with an equivalent open weights
model for mass adoption that was llama two. Two years ago came reasoning, reasoning models
like open ai 01 could now think longer about problems. Reasoning creates this massive
explosion in token usage, and it's laid the groundwork for future AI agents, and then just five
months later, deep sea car one, an equivalent reasoning model was released under open
source license at a much lower cost to train. Now we've had quad code since February last
year, but with the introduction of Opus four, five toward the end of last year, in November, we
saw this emergence of an agentic coding tool. I mean, everybody came back from the holidays
with their minds blown about their agentic coding experience. So that combo in late November,
just a few months later, two months later, openclaw became the fastest growing open source
project ever, like open source agents for everyone. So we had eight months, we had five
months, we had two months. Every time open responds faster than the time before, admittedly,
three years ago, it wasn't totally clear about the role of open source with AI that's critical for
deep dependencies in data science, but now with open source inference, with open weights,
models with open source harnesses, these are undeniably ready to be the open foundation of
AI in the future. So I'd recommend take away two things from these examples. The first is this
speed and velocity is not going to slow down anytime soon, so you got to make sure you're
building flexibility into your AI strategy, and the second, the right AI platform, built on open
source, will enable you to manage the pace of choice and change that AI is driving today. Now,
before we dive into the platform, let's just reflect on the business reality that makes this
platform so important. Right now, most enterprise AI runs like this. You call a frontier model
API. You pay for the tokens you send it and the tokens that it generates for you. It's super easy
to start powerful models and for some workloads, genuinely just the right answer. But here's
the dynamic that's worth watching closely, per token pricing is coming down 75 to 90% a year.
That's the good news. Token consumption, however, is skyrocketing, increasing over 500% a
year, in some cases, and so with these new reasoning models that are generating even more
tokens as they think consuming 10 to 20 times more tokens than standard models. And with AI
agents, you'll have to expect another 5x multiple because an AI agent reasons it plans. You
heard from Matt. It calls tools. It iterates, it loops, it's connected to other agents in a workflow.
So to win token economics, you have to move from being just a token consumer to an actual
token provider. And we're working with organizations around the world to enable just that.
Organizations that own part of their own inference infrastructure, that run self hosted models,
optimize for their business, and have real choice over which model to use for which job. Those
are the organizations that will emerge as the winners. All right, so let's dive into the platform.
Now, remember what Matt described earlier, that journey from Frontier models to open source
models hosted internally. Matt ran on this platform, Red Hat, AI enterprise, it's the platform that
really made it possible. We literally call this metal to agents, a fully integrated stack that spans
from the physical machines running AI accelerators all the way up to the agents delivering real
business value every layer connected, secured and open at the foundation Red Hat AI
enterprise runs on any accelerator and any cloud, giving our customers choice and control over
S

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 14 ---
where they deliver AI capabilities for their business. This includes accelerators from Nvidia,
AMD, Intel, and from the cloud providers, custom silicon, like in AWS, in Google Cloud and
Azure, and whatever comes next across public, private and edge environments. That's the
foundation. Now let's go through the Red Hat Enterprise AI stack that makes the metal to
agents possible. It begins at this AI infrastructure layer. Now this is where the IT operations,
SRE and platform engineering teams live today. Ai runs on Linux and is scaled with Kubernetes.
Rel provides this Linux Foundation that trusted and reliable operating system that's built with
the security needs of both current and future workloads in mind, so we protect the foundation
of your AI system. Everything above this really depends on getting this layer right. Red Hat,
OpenShift is our unified Kubernetes platform for virtual machines, for containers and for AI
workloads, network isolation can control what an agent can reach, and GPU sharing across
workloads means your most expensive resources are not locked to a single team, or worse, Just
sitting idle between inference calls. Next are inference services. This is where your token
economics layer lives, where performance, where scalability, efficiency and cost. This is where
it all comes together. Inference is the layer that most directly determines whether your AI
strategy succeeds at scale. If you get inference wrong, your customers aren't happy, your data
science teams aren't happy, your AI agents aren't happy, and your CFO is definitely not happy.
So we deliver world class inference services through bllm, the open standard for inference
serving. And Red Hat is super proud to be the leading contributor to the bllm project. Now bllm
is complemented by LLMD, our open source distributed inference framework. We built LLMD
because AI workloads aren't like typical cloud native workloads. Enterprise AI workloads often
don't fit on just a single GPU. They're stateful. They fundamentally rely on KV cache, and they
vary dramatically from request to request. So LMD intelligently routes and schedules requests
across your environment, optimizing how models execute, how GPU resources are used, and
how latency is managed. Remember those token economics I mentioned, in just one year, the
performance improvements with LLMD are three times more output tokens and 10x faster time
to first token. And there's a great paper that was recently published by Red Hat and Tesla,
along with the open source community that has all the details. Next up, we've got model
services. Now this is where choice is critical, given all the changes happening with Frontier
models, with open weight models, with domain specific models and even small language
models. Now the starting point for many companies is delivering models as a service to their
internal application and data science teams. Red Hat AI enterprise just makes that easy. When
your AI teams need to add, remove or swap a model, you do it in just one place. Your teams
choose the models they want, token quotas, credentialed access, request priorities and rate
limiting. All of it is delivered through our AI gateway. It's one control plane for every model
interaction across your environment. Now the reality is that companies will use many different
models to deliver their AI capabilities that their business needs, and our vllm team has deep
expertise with a wide variety of models. In fact, almost every major new model update is
optimized for vllm Right on day zero. So to bring all that innovation and optimization to our
customers, the validated models by Red Hat program has more than 20 collections of models
and nearly 700 variations of models that have all been validated on bllm and then optimized for
speed and efficiency. So this should give you a sense of our commitment when we say that Red
Hat AI supports any model. In order to ensure that you can bring your company's data to your
models, we've integrated a number of data services to simplify owning your AI experience
things like retrieval, augmented generation or rag and fine tuning, and, most importantly,
integrated evaluations. All right now we're at the top agent services. Now. This is where AI will
make the biggest impact on differentiating your business into the future. Agents are no longer
just an experiment for a clever automation they are core to every enterprise AI strategy. It
won't be unusual in the future to hear that a company has 1000s or 10s of 1000s of agents. So
our goal is to make sure you have the AI platform that can manage those agents securely
today. Fact, I'm 100% certain that there's some AI agents running somewhere in your

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 15 ---
organization right now, and they bring with them a series of challenges. The first challenge is
the exponential impact that AI agents will have on your inference requirements. Remember, if
you don't have control over your inference usage, you don't have control over your token
economics. The second is sprawl your developers want Lang chain your data science team is
building with crew AI, your marketing director figured out open claw, and hundreds of your
employees just downloaded quadcode or Codex. So if your AI strategy doesn't manage sprawl
and give your team's choice, you're going to have frustrated employees. You frustrated
employees. And if your AI agent security strategy doesn't support multiple types of agents,
you're going to have more than frustration from your security and compliance teams. So
remember Red Hat. AI supports any cloud, any accelerator, any model and any AI agent, we
call this, bring your own agents to enable this level of choice. The AI platform needs to deliver
agent ops. Identity matters. Every agent gets a verified, authorized identity. Lifecycle matters.
Every agent can be versioned, updated and rolled back. Tool calling matters so native support
for MCP services connects agents to the tools and data that literally define your enterprise. And
of course, most importantly, tracing and monitoring matter integrated observability enables the
platform to track agent interactions. So when you give your team's choice and your IT teams
control, this turns bring your own agents into agents as a service that's managed by the AI
platform.

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 16 ---
Speaker 8 1:09:26
So
Speaker 7 1:09:26
to bring it all together, Red Hat delivers the complete enterprise AI stack from the AI
accelerators up through the AI agents. It's tightly integrated. It's totally open with our
ecosystem partners, with every layer connected, secure and open. So now let's check out how
this goes into action with BNP Paragon, with a footprint in 64 countries and territories and more
than 180,000 employees BNP is a leader in banking and financial services across Europe. Now,
AI has been a priority since 2016 and they view it as a strategic asset for developing a new way
to bank. Now, most companies talk about AI in terms of saving money or being more efficient,
but what about AI leading to value and growth? So far, the bank says it's generated nearly
$600 million in additional value from ai, $600 million in additional value from leveraging the
strategic asset. Now their IT organization relies on some 750 AI experts and 3000 data experts,
and today, BNP is architecting the next era of finance by scaling one of Europe's most
formidable AI factories, powered by Red Hat AI to fuel 1000 AI use cases, the bank has unified
its predictive and generative AI strategy across a hybrid cloud architecture, and that AI factory
is helping VFP industrialize AI use cases and deploy generative AI models at scale. So the AI
factory platform leverages GPU computing to operationalize AI capabilities across the bank, and
they've transformed GPU provisioning from like this weeks long bottleneck into just a minute's
service, and they've also accelerated their internal LLM as a service platform, while upholding
the highest standards for digital sovereignty. So BNP Paribas has made tremendous strides in
operationalizing AI for its business users, and let's not forget about that $600 million in
additional value that I mentioned. That's something that any board would love to hear about
these days. So what we're doing today for AI is what we did for all the other pillars of
enterprise. It think Linux, Kubernetes and Ansible. And we're doing this in collaboration with our
partner ecosystem, including Nvidia, where we've been heads down co engineering, a
foundation that helps you move past the science project phase and into actual production. So
joining me now to talk about how we're accelerating that path is Justin Boyton,
Speaker 9 1:12:55
all right. DJ, JV, right here.
S
S
S

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 17 ---
Speaker 7 1:13:01
So Justin, I gotta say, our joint work on the Red Hat AI factory with Nvidia has been like a
highlight for the year, and from my perspective, that's about giving customers this consistent
and sovereign foundation across the hybrid cloud so that they can own their own intelligence.
But what are you seeing in terms of interest from customers about this integrated
Speaker 8 1:13:26
approach? Well, first, it's awesome to be here with you, Chris, and it's great to be back at Red
Hat Summit. Look at this audience. Open source is born, right? Red Hat is the company that is
synonymous with industrializing open source software for enterprise. And every time we talk to
enterprises, they consist consistently tell us they need a platform to build, deploy and scale
specialized AI agents that understand their business. They can automate critical workflows with
them, and they can run them securely across a multi cloud and hybrid cloud environment, and
so this Red Hat AI factory with Nvidia optimizations brings us that foundation for every
enterprise. It combines Red Hat's open source platform with Nvidia accelerated run times our
open models, our open inference stack, so that customers can industrialize AI agent
development and deployment with really the best token and power efficiency.
Speaker 7 1:14:24
Yeah, I think that token power efficiency fits right into the token economics we were just talking
about. So Red Hat AI's upcoming 3.4 release includes the new governed model as a service
experience that's delivered via the Red Hat AI gateway that gives developers that seamless
access to created models like Nemo Tron through the standard open AI compatible interface.
We've already announced GA support for Nvidia, Grace Blackwell and the roadmap to Land Day
Zero support for the upcoming Vera Rubin architecture. Now in the past, software, surprisingly,
could lag behind hardware for months, if not even longer. You You guys are moving at the
speed of light. Why is this tight synchronization between the Red Hat stack and Nvidia's latest
silicon so critical right now? Yeah,
S
S
S

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 18 ---
Speaker 8 1:15:13
I think the only in your setup of all of this, only point you may have missed is we are living
through the world's biggest industrial revolution as we build out AI. And when we think of the
infrastructure being deployed in AI, it's really what we call a five layer cake. There's energy,
there's chips, there's the infrastructure, software infrastructure, you talked about models and
applications of the agents, and you've got to fully optimize all of that so that you get the best
token efficiency to automate work. And really that's the name of the game, is you got to
convert power into tokens, and these tokens are going to be the intelligence that powers your
business. When we build a new rack scale architecture like our Grace Blackwell system, we're
building a system with six processors. We go through a process we call extreme co design. And
in this extreme co design process, we make sure we squeeze every bit of power efficiency out
of that rack. But to realize the benefits, you've got to continue to optimize the software
infrastructure, the model serving layer and the agents, so that when customers set up these
new platforms, they immediately get their biggest business advantage on these newest
architectures.
Speaker 7 1:16:23
Yeah, you can see the importance your extreme co design at the chip level, and that
connection with software super important. Now we've already talked today about that moving
from simple chat bots to fully autonomous agentic AI, super exciting, but let's be honest, it
definitely brings up some pretty serious security concerns. Now we're collaborating on the open
shell project to bring sandbox, zero trust environments to these agents. How do you see this
open shells project and kind of the security first mindset helping enterprises to trust that
agents can actually do these long running tasks and perform real, real value and potentially
regulated environments.
S
S

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 19 ---
Speaker 8 1:17:09
Yeah. And so one of the big advancements you mentioned the open cloud moment, and agents
are advancing at this tremendous speed, one of the fundamental innovations of open cloud was
self evolving, so it was trying to write software on the fly and reinsert it into the application,
which can be, you know, absolutely terrifying. And so where we are as an industry as we
believe that's a huge productivity gain if you can deploy it in the right way. We think every
company is going to deploy agents this year to every employee. And how do I know this? And
why am I so confident? Well, we've done this at Nvidia. We gave all 40,000 employees access
to the first agent, and now employees want more. But as you start to deploy these agents into
every workflow for chip design, software development, supply chain, automation into like how
we run the business across the board. You know, agents become core to our work. We want to
run them and the intelligence behind them as much as we can on infrastructure that we
operate and we control, so that we make sure we can control our costs. But you got to do it in a
way that you can govern it, and you can govern these agents. So just like we give our
employees role based access control into all the business systems and tools that they use to do
their job. We've got the same thing with agents. And so first we built this platform we call open
shell. It's a secure agent governance layer that provides fine grade policy controls to govern
these agents at scale. And then the second thing we did is we're introducing confidential
computing into the Red Hat AI factory with Nvidia together. And we're doing this so that you
guys can ask of your Frontier model companies to run on infrastructure you own. And we're
starting to see, actually, quite a bit of excitement around that as well. So one thing I think, from
Nvidia's experience, which is pretty clear, is that no matter what agents people want to use, to
your point, whether you're using cloud or Codex, Lang chain, building their own agents, we
want to have kind of a unified, secure runtime to be able to govern them at scale. And then we
see the world being a multi agent, multi cloud, hybrid cloud world across every enterprise
globally.
Speaker 2 1:19:22
Yeah, I love that,
Speaker 10 1:19:24
multi agent, multi cloud, hybrid cloud.
S
S
S

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 20 ---
Speaker 7 1:19:28
So from my point of view, I've often thought that for AI to really work, organizations need
technical independence. They can't be locked into just a single black box. So think about that.
How our work on these open source runtimes and that consistent infrastructure? How does that
help a CTO feel confident that they're not just renting their future but actually building a
sustainable, independent AI strategy? Yeah, and I'll say, Chris, I couldn't agree more. A lot of
this comes down
Speaker 8 1:20:00
to like you have to control your destiny in this transition. And so having choice on where you
run the agents, how you control the context, which is all the information about your business
going to these agents, is absolutely critical, and our collaboration being built on openness is a
key part of this. So by combining really Red House leadership and open source software with
open models from Nvidia, open data sets that we provide the industry so people can post train
these models, open post training techniques, open agent optimization techniques and open
shell as the runtime customers have the choice. They can run anywhere they want with really
commercial support offered together between Red Hat and Nvidia, we believe we're now giving
enterprises really the keys to, you know, owning their their ultimate outcome with agents?
Speaker 7 1:20:47
Yeah, I love that, giving the agency to our to our customers and keys owning their own AI
strategy. I mean, you can see there's a ton going on, and clearly a lot more work to do this. Co
engineering has been really exciting, and we're doing tons of great work and engaging directly
with customers. But for now, Justin, I got to say just thanks for being here. Thanks, Chris, it's
awesome. Thank you guys. All right. Well, Verizon is the perfect customer story to close the
morning, because this us, telecommunications giant has operationalized so much of what we've
been talking about today, from virtualization to scaling. AI, they're proving that a unified open
platform is the only way to modernize a footprint as big as theirs, while staying scrappy and
reliable. So please join me in welcoming Praveen atrey to the stage. I love your CEO has been,
like, super vocal about this Verizon becoming a scrappier competitor through radical customer
simplification. So now, from an engineering standpoint, when you're managing this massive
scale network like yours, how does moving to a unified platform actually deliver that simplicity
while maintain the urgency needed to stay ahead of this competitive market. Chris, thank
S
S
S

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 21 ---
Speaker 2 1:22:30
you for having me here. Good morning. Everyone. Great to see you all at Verizon, we've
embraced that in order to thrive in a hyper competitive market such as ours, you need radical
customer centrism, and that requires simplicity, speed and efficiency. What that demands from
a network is a software centric network model, essentially a network that moves at the speed
of software and the key enabler for that is a powerful and a performant private cloud platform,
not just at the core in the data centers, but also in the edge, the far edge of the network as
well. And this is what offers control, security, observability, observability and a host of common
capability that essentially enables every network element to now become an app, an
application. And what this does is that it allows us to fully embrace the software and the cloud
operating model. This is what drives continuous improvement through seamless upgradability,
self healing and continuous self optimization, which in turn delivers more value, more delight to
our customers over time. I love that
Speaker 7 1:23:59
network software, just an application, you make it sound so easy. Now the Verizon cloud
platform has been on like, a 10 year journey, and while G is cloud native, virtualization is still
totally a part of your reality. So I know you've been working on consolidating legacy
environments all along the way. What's the strategic value for Verizon in having a single
platform that manages your containers and your virtual machines,
Speaker 2 1:24:30
rather than separating them into two separate worlds? Thank you, Chris for the mention on the
Verizon cloud platform, or VCP, as we call it internally. It's a 10 year anniversary. You've been a
strong partner throughout the journey from Day Zero. Thank you for that. To answer your
question, when you run a network and a business at the scale of Verizon, and I'll throw out a
couple of stats with nearly 150 million retail wireless connections. That's just mobile. In
addition, we also have nearly 17 mil broadband connections. I could go on and on with the
vanity stats, but I want but a natural consequence of this scale is that you also end up with
heterogeneous and a multi generation technology and an application landscape you're
simultaneously running modern, highly decomposed micro services alongside legacy,
monolithic applications or VMs, and this is where having a Single hybrid platform that handles
all of this seamless transition of workloads, enabling various heritages and applications to work
closely together. It makes a big difference. It makes a big difference towards simplicity and
efficiency and again, ultimately enables us to be better for our customers. Yeah, I like the
picturing heirloom applications. We got some, some interesting legacy there. Yep. Now we've
been talking about AI this morning, and it's definitely moving from that, that buzzword, to a
core operational tool for enterprises. And I know you've described the goal of building
autonomous networks. I mean, it's basically like a self driving network. So how is this kind of CO
developed platform that we're creating
S
S
S

--- PDF: next_platform_is_choice_1.pdf | Page: 22 ---
Speaker 7 1:26:30
with OpenShift AI, helping you bridge the gap between just collecting data and actually
automating the network in real time to minimize any customer disruption,
Speaker 2 1:26:41
this is a great one, the data, the insight, the recommendation to action loop has been poor and
happens repeatedly in the context of network automation today, in fact, not Just for plan
changes like lifecycle management and upgrades for unplanned, rainy day fault remediation
and for performance improvements. We have made millions of changes in 2020 25 alone in
closed loop. More no human in the loop. And this is fascinating in its own right. But while this is
true, where we're going is 10x with AI, everyone is a developer, and with agentic AI, your best
thoughts can be amplified and scaled almost limitlessly. And so what we can do in the context
of agenda AI with network automation is is far beyond what we can do with structured
automation. For example, a network operator could detect network experience degradations for
each individual customer rather than aggregate alarms that smooth out individual customer
related data points, and then you can drive complex triage loops for each incident with the
reasoning capabilities these agents offer, which can then autonomously drive
recommendations that lead to actions that resolve these customer issues in near real time
before they ask for help. And while that is super powerful, that's just one of the scenarios that
AI in network enabled through AI runtimes such as OpenShift AI. And of course, the hyper
evolving models of today can help in terms of building, planning, running the network that
certainly demonstrates radical customer centricity, like a personalized network. Just for me, I
appreciate that. How about just given the work that we've done? You know, what are your
experiences in realizing just benefits from this whole modernization journey that you've been
on? Yeah, there are many you can say this better than I can in many ways, but I will say, let me
name a three or a couple. First of all, we've moved on from the state of forced hardware
upgrade cycles. We have a complex network with multiple vendors, and we use to have
situations such as, hey, if you want that feature, you need a new box in order to support that.
We don't have that anymore. For elastic, we can add hardware horizontally. In addition, the
modularity of software is another key benefit. This enables us now to replace components, such
as replacing a stochastic algorithm for channel state estimation with a AI deep neural network
algo that does the same job, but.
S
S
