____Header data____
This talk occured on 2026_05_11 from 3:40PM - 4:00PM
____/Header data____

Speaker 1  0:04  
Good afternoon, everyone. I think we can get started. We have three minutes over. Welcome everyone. Good afternoon. My name is Venkat Venkata Krishna. I drive the database strategy and innovation in forest financial, and that's the topic that I'm going to talk about today. And it really sounds mouthful, but it isn't the core thesis. Pretty simple. The enterprises have vast, you know, data, which are fragmented across silos, systems and with the with also the, you know, the data is remains fragmented, right? So now the static rag workflows, which the which the industry has been building over the past few years, the couple of years, they struggle to make sense of when the context evolves right and also they don't support multi step reasoning. So what I'm going to show you today is how the graph based retrieval workflows can overcome this challenge, and also, especially, along with the autonomous agenting AI framework, and especially the context graphs, not just the knowledge graphs the context graphs, they serve as the governor trail substrate. Somebody is trying to open the store. Okay, sorry about that. That makes this work at an enterprise scale. And that's just a disclaimer that the views and opinions are expressed here are of my own, and they do not represent my organization. It's just a really everything that we need to put here. Okay, so let's define the let's set the stage with a problem, right? So the fragmented data silos, so the enterprise data, it remains scattered across the databases, the document stores, APIs, Confluence pages, the JIRA tickets, ServiceNow records, there is no single system that provides you unified view or a complete picture. So, and that's a that's a challenge for every enterprise, every large enterprise, rather and the flat vector retrieval, right? So the traditional rack takes your documents. It chunks them into, you know, multiple token pieces. It embeds them into vectors and or, and then it also retrieves the top k nearest matches. Now, what's the problem here? It reads every chunk as an isolated island, rather the system A is dependent on system B, and it is managed by a team C, which also which also follows policy D. The this isolated chunks, they do not have this context and relationships established between them. Those are never captured in a flat based flat vector retrieval, so and also the multi step reasoning. So let's say that if we if you ask a static rack system a question, what downstream applications are affected when you bring down a payments database, it wouldn't have a clue, because that type of information is never retrieved and stored, and the context blindness. So as the conversation and the workflow progresses, the excuse me, the context also evolves. So the bottom line here is that we need an AI that understands the relationships and reasons through structure and can also act autonomously. So what is a graph rag? So graph rag is a port point two of the word graph and the acronym rag, which is we all know that a trivial augmented generation. So in my opinion, it rests on these three pillars, as you see on the slide. The first is the knowledge graph. So instead of flat document chunks, we structure our enterprise knowledge as a graph. So a graph typically comprises of nodes and edges, and those nodes, right? So in any large IT enterprise landscape we can define, we have lot of entities, right? Anything, anything that you can call us a noun could be an entity, right? Physical host, IP address, servers, databases, policies, application teams, routers, switches, you name them, right? Anything that can be defined as a known as an entity. Now what? And those entities become nodes in the graph, and then there are edges. So the there are also relationships between these individual entities or those data points that we define, and those relationships can be represented as those edges and the Knowledge Graph. They preserve the structural context you know between these data points and the pillar two is the as you see, there's a graph of a retrieval so when a query comes in, instead of doing a cosine similarity search on a vector based retrieval against a vector. So store, we traverse the we traverse the graph. So the multi hop traversal means we can follow the chain of relationships, right? So this database fits this application, which is actually maintained by this particular team and which follows this particular change management policy, and then we have the LLM reasoning, right? So the retrieved graph context not just the text chunks, but the structured relationship rich sub graphs gets fed to the LL. And the key evolution is at the bottom right, the naive rack. Right? We are moving from that naive rack concept into this which is just the flag chunks and top k vector retrieval, to the graph rack, which is structured multi hub and relationship aware, and that's a fundamental shift with the way we retrieve the data. And here's the pipeline, right? So from left to right, we have four steps in just an extract the step one. So we take the unstructured data, you know, it could be documents, the conference pages, JIRA, ticket ServiceNow reports the incident, records anything right, and then we run the entity extraction exercise. This can be a named entity recognition model, or it could be based on any LLM. LLM based extraction, so we identify those entities which we defined earlier servers, database and anything which could be called as a noun, and the relations, relationships between there. And in the step two, we use these entities, those extracted entities, and we transform them into nodes in in any graph database, right? And one popular database that's that's on the in the industry is near 4j or it could also be a PostgreSQL database with an Apache ag extension on top of it. You can build graph databases and those extracted entities become nodes in in any of those graph databases. And let's say that the relationships or or those typed directional edges right, for example, if you want to build a PostgreSQL database right, that that Postgres SQL database server. It is it runs on, and it or it's dependent on, Red Hat Linux VM which in turn, is hosted on, let's say, a VMware SX frame. And this entire server orchestration process itself could be triggered via an Ansible playbook, which was, which was triggered by a GitLab pipeline, and which has a service now, ticket, you know, and also a security blueprint. So you see the all these entities and the relationships between them, and those are all preserved in the Knowledge Graph. So when a user asks a question, we don't just do a vector search, right? We decompose the query, identify all those entities, the relevant entities, and we traverse the graph. And if someone asks about those impact analysis, we have the data handy. And, and the step four is augment and generate so that retreat subgraph, along with this, nodes, edges and properties are fed into the LLM, along with any vector match documents, right? They they all gets assembled into the context and and that goes to the LLM, which can now reason over the relationships. So what is the critical difference here? Right the flat rack perhaps gives you five matched documents right chunks, whereas the graph rack gives you the connected subgraph of related entities with their relationships preserved. I think you know. We all know what agentic AI is, and I don't want to bore you all with the details here, but the idea is, this is what, this is what makes the agent, the graph rag, more and more powerful, right? Because the agents now you don't you have all the relationship rich, context, aware data that is produced from the graph rag and the Knowledge Graph upon which we can have this agents reason and reiterate, orchestrate and also perform the action upon that data. So this is really, really powerful. So this is a, this is kind of gives you a sense of full architecture, as while combining the graph rack with the with the agentic AI pipeline. So let's say that here the that is the user query layer, so the natural language comes in and which and through which we classify the intent. So is this information? Is the query just an information retrieval exercise or, or is it an, are we, you know, are we asking impact analysis or a change request? So then we decompose that complex query into multiple sub tasks. So let's say that you know, what happens if, if a particular, you know, Red Hat cluster comes down right, what is the impact because of it? So that becomes a multiple sub query. So we need to identify the relevant nodes, the application teams, and even the the impact of the clients. There are so many data and that is already available in the form of knowledge graph which could be leveraged for this purpose. And then comes the agent orchestration. So there are four specialized agents in a multi agent framework. We have the planner, agent, retriever, reasoning and the executor agent, which are going to work in tandem together in order to complete the query, the graph rack engine, which is the, which is actually the, this is where the knowledge lives. So for example, you know, like we saw before, that any graph database like Neo for G, it stores the entity graph with cipher queries for traversal and the and the postgres SQL with the PG vector embeddings, they handle the hybrid retrieval. Then the context assembly step, it merges the graph and the subgraphs with the vector match documents into a coherent context window. Then, then there is model serving layer on the OpenShift AI, which is at the bottom. So the vllm, it's it serves the LLM on GPU nodes with auto scaling. The llama stack provides the inference API, the OPA policies enforce God rails. So this entire layer runs as managed containers on OpenShift AI. So the key insight here is each layer is independently scalable, observable and governed. So that's the power of running it is on a Kubernetes native architecture. I think I'm going to skip this slide for the lack of time here. So on this particular slide, we've already seen define what entities and relationships are, but what I want to talk about is the properties, the properties as context, right? So the properties, they carry the context, so every node and edge can have their attributes, timestamps, confidence scores, and even the vector things, everything is attached to them. So this means that we can do hybrid retrieval, graph traversal plus the semantic similarity in a single query, next one. So this is the slide I want you to really internalize, because it's the conceptual leap in this presentation. So a traditional knowledge graph is just a static entity relationship store, so it captures waters like the entities and the relationships at a point in time. It is batch updated. We can rebuild and re ingest periodically, but it has no notion of when a fact became true, when it was superseded or or where it came from. It only supports the retrieval. So there's no record of how the system used the knowledge to make the decisions. So a context graph actually goes beyond in order to overcome all those limitations which are given line, point by point here. But the bottom line is, and I'll borrow this framing from Adnan massoud's Excellent work on context graphs. Graph rack is the retrieval technique. The context graph is the governed substrate it retrieves from and we need both. And of course, the this is, once again, another critical framing slide, and I apologize that I have I'm rushing through because, you know, I'm running short of time here the context, engineering is the discipline, you know, the and the bottom line is, whoever controls the agents, context controls its behavior. Context engineering is the rapid leap, you know, becoming the defining AI discipline in 2026 I think I have already top of the hour. Let me try to show you a demo. I'm hoping that it is going to work. I Yeah,

Speaker 2  16:05  
let's see.

Speaker 3  16:09  
Okay,

Speaker 1  16:10  
so let's say that this is this kind of now, this is an autonomous database operations, multi agent, multi agentic AI framework that you can think of. So I'm just going to give this prompt to check the payment service for any slow queries and see if it produces any how it's going to help me arrive at that I'm so, so now this, this has, this goes into the this already has the knowledge of what those databases are, right? It can, it can perform. It can run these queries at the back end autonomously. And it also wants me to, this is the human in the loop. It doesn't want to do anything that is that could be disruptive, right? It is asking me if you want me to perform an action. Right? Now, let's say that if I want to check the change management

Speaker 3  17:30  
policy for, let's say, Postgres for a batch this weekend, just giving this

Speaker 1  17:43  
so now I want to understand, right, what could be. I want to run a patch against a database, and I wanted to do this analysis to see if it is, if it's good, if there's going to be any freeze this weekend or any other conflicting change that could, that could hinder this operation, and then it produces me a report. So this shows us that it is not only aware of the databases alone, but it also has the knowledge of the enterprise at large, because it considers the change management policies, the freeze windows, the maintenance windows, it also evaluates. It can also evaluate, let's say that, what is the impact? What is let's, let's ask this question, right? What is the downstream impact? Right of doing this impact? I it. So here you also see that the service topology there right so now it also has the ability to determine what are all those applications that may be potentially impacted because of this particular change, and it also produces us the detailed report of the blast radius summary, the risk mitigation recommendations and so on and so forth. I think. Thank you. If

Speaker 4  19:18  
there are any other questions, I the outside you.

